---
author: mhutzul
image: assets/images/2021-09-30-Truth-and-Reconciliation-Day.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Truth and Reconciliation Day: Reckoning With Canada’s Past and Forging Its Future"
---

September 30th is a bit different this year. Maybe you’ve noticed the
orange streamers on the Martingrove fence, or the sea of orange t-shirts
in the halls of our school. Today is the National Day for Truth and
Reconciliation, the first annual holiday for Canada to recognize the
harm caused to Indigenous families and communities over the years. It is
also Orange Shirt Day, an annual tradition honouring the survivors of
residential schools.

It makes sense that these two events are happening on the same day. The
history of the harm caused to the Indigenous people of Canada is linked
to the lasting legacy of Residential Schools - one of the main causes of
that suffering. In honour of today, let’s outline a brief history of the
harm inflicted on Indigenous people in the past, the progress Canada has
made today, and the things we need to improve on in the future.

In May of 2021, Canadians and people around the world were horrified by
the discovery of the bodies of 215 Indigenous children, found near the
Kamloops Residential School, which was the largest residential school
during the time of their operation. Since then, 1,000 more bodies have
been found at various Residential Schools, forcing Canada into a
reckoning over a bloody and cruel history.

People tend to think of Residential Schools as a brutal but distant part
of the Canadian story. However, the bodies of the 50 identified children
found in Kamloops range from 1900, all the way to 1971. From 1874 to
1996, Residential Schools in Canada operated as part of a policy of
forced assimilation, taking First Nations’ children from their families
and putting them in state-run boarding schools. This policy stripped
these children not only of their families, culture, and language, but
also their health and well-being - the schools were overcrowded and
underfunded - while many students succumbed to disease and neglect.

The shame felt by the actions of our ancestors will live with us always,
but it is nothing compared to the trauma inflicted on the First Nations
people. Those who left the Residential School system alive had poorer
mental and physical health, and were more likely to suffer from mental
distress, including depression, and addictive and suicidal behaviours.

In the face of such overwhelming cruelty, it is easy to feel guilty and
stuck in a rut, like there’s nothing you can do to help. However, there
are little actions you can take to do your part. The first is one we
have started here together: learning the history of Indigenous people.
We should take time to reflect on the tragedy of what we know, but
should also educate ourselves on Indigenous culture, history, and
traditions. We’ll recognize Indigenous people as an important part of
Canadian history, and as distinct in their own right.

We can also pay attention to the issues Indigenous people currently
face. There are 58 active boiled water advisories on First Nations
reserves (38 communities without clean water to drink), and an ongoing
crisis of Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women (MMIW), who represent
16% of all murders in Canada between 1980 and 2012, despite being only
4% of the population. This is only the beginning of the issues
Indigenous people face. The more we pay attention to these problems, the
more media coverage and government intervention will occur. Calling your
MP (never underestimate the power that comes from complaining for a good
cause), or donating to an Indigenous organization like the Native
Women’s Association of Canada is a great way to make a difference.

The last and simplest way to show our support for Indigenous people is
to wear orange on September 30th. By doing this, we reckon with Canada’s
cruel past, and show we are capable of starting the process of making
amends. Our society has taken steps in the right direction - like moving
away from honouring creators of Residential Schools by renaming Ryerson
and toppling statues of John A. Macdonald - but there is a long way to
go. As we reflect today, we should recognize that although much of
Canada’s past isn’t something to be proud of, Canada’s future could be,
and that depends on all of us doing better than the people who came
before us.
