---
author: awong
image: assets/images/Star-Wars-Themed-Christmas- Mira-Seth.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "It’s Not Over Until Princess Leia Sings (A Breakdown of the Star Wars Christmas Special)"
---

Setting the Scene

It’s November 17, 1978, and “The Carol Burnett Show” is in its last
season. “Superman: The Movie” is about to be released and Jimmy Carter
is president of the United States. Around 13 million households tune in
to CBS to watch the first official spin-off of a little indie film
called “*Star Wars*”. Unfortunately, for them this TV special was
incoherent, strange and off-putting. It was truly a test of people’s
desire to see new Star Wars content. Many households may have turned off
the special after the 10 minutes of Wookie conversations without
subtitles or the alien Julia Child parody. Others may have toughed it
out until the 13 minute bar scene with beloved “*Golden Girls*” actress
Bea Arthur playing a bartender who is sexually harassed by a customer.
The real masochists will stay to the end only to realize that George
Lucas, the creator of *Sta*r *Wars* does not even have his name in the
credits. After Its original airing, it was never shown again. George
Lucas tried to destroy every copy of the special show. Carrie Fisher
(Princess Leia) preserved one official copy and allegedly would play it
in order to to get guests out of her house at Christmas. The real
question is, who played the role of Jar Jar Binks and let this nightmare
happen? Did this project start out on the Dark Side? Or did it start
with good intentions and get seduced by dark forces like Anakin
Skywalker?

Production Problems

The *Star Wars Christmas Special* was created with the intent of keeping
people interested in *Star Wars* during the time between “*A New Hope''*
and “*The Empire Strikes Back”* movie releases. According to co-writer
Leonard Ripps, George Lucas had over a dozen ideas including a scrapped
one where Han Solo was married to a Wookie. However, the world wasn’t
ready for something so horrifying, so he settled for a story about
Chewbacca's family during the celebration of Life Day. Lucas had a clear
plot and idea for the writers to flesh out, but he would not be directly
involved due to prior obligations working on *“The Empire Strikes
Back”*. Without Lucas, there was no one providing an overall vision to
guide the project. Leonard Ripps and Pat Profit were the head writer’s
on the special and had a background in writing comedy on both “*The Dick
Van Dyke Show*” and “*The Carol Burnett Show*”. As the writers leaned in
on their comedic backgrounds and producers pushed to make it a variety
show, the project veered away from Lucas’ original idea.

Casting Chaos

Why did the main cast of “*Star Wars*” agree to do this? Getting the
actors to appear in the Christmas special was a struggle. Harrison Ford
(Han Solo) just didn’t want to be there. Throughout the entire special
he clearly looks miserable. When asked in an interview if he had ever
watched the special he said, with the cadence of a man who had been in a
war: “I lived it ''. Mark Hamill (Luke Skywalker) had a car accident
after the filming of “*A New Hope*” which changed his facial features.
The *Star Wars Christmas Special’s* solution to this issue was to apply
an obscene amount of foundation to his face leaving him looking like a
mannequin who was painted to look like Luke Skywalker, or one of the
zombies from “*In the Flesh”* (props to the 10 people reading this who
got that reference). Carrie Fisher fought for one of the better parts of
the special, a performance of the Life Day song which was set to the
music of the Star Wars theme. The rest of the production was a bit of a
mess.The actors wearing the Wookie costumes could only wear them for 45
minutes before becoming overheated. On top of this, the production ran
out of money and had to settle for a weirdly cult-like ending sequence
where all the Wookies wear red cloaks and carry candles in a bizarre
Life Day ritual. This ritual was originally explained but this was cut
out of the special because executives felt that a holographic
nightmarish Cirque du Soleil-like scene was more important. The only
creative casting decision in this entire debacle was a short animated
feature that marks the first appearance of Boba Fett.

Post-Credits

Although the *Star Wars Christmas Special* was a deep source of shame
for the cast and crew it has become a cultural touchstone. Personally, I
think the joy is in watching the commitment to the bit. In this current
climate of stringent adherence to canon and a fanatic corporate need to
conform to the Star Wars brand, it's comforting that a piece of true
chaos is still floating around and is free for anyone to watch on
YouTube. In the immortal words of a YouTube commenter, “Disney won’t
take this video down because then they would have to claim ownership
over it.” So as the holidays draw near, and if you have 97 minutes to
spare, do yourself a favour and watch “Die Hard” instead.

Image taken by [*Mira Seth*](https://mcibeacon.com/member/mira-seth)
