---
author: amarchetti
image: assets/images/2021-11-24-Breaking-Down-the-New-Spiderman-Movie-Trailer.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Breaking Down the New Spiderman Movie Trailer"
---
*The Spiderman: No Way Home* trailer has made Marvel fans go crazy.
Here’s some of what we know about the movie so far.

If you haven’t seen the previous Spiderman movies yet, then you may not
want to read this article because there are a lot of spoilers. The new
movie is part of phase four, and has been talked about for what feels
like forever. There are multiple fan theories and many things to cover
in the trailer.

The opening shot of the official trailer shows Peter Parker *(*Tom
Holland*)* in the rain, beaten up. His expression implies that he is in
mourning. A lot of fans are wondering whether someone close to Peter has
died, or if he is emotional for a different reason. Perhaps one of my
favourite theories about this movie so far is that at the end of the
film, Peter will have to sacrifice himself to the multiverse to save the
ones he loves, and he’ll have no way home.

Later, the trailer shows the aftermath of the last movie, “*Spiderman:
Far From Home*”, when Peter was exposed as Spiderman. There are
similarities between outfits worn in the last film and in the trailer,
so it’s plausible that this movie starts up right where we left off.
Peter's identity being exposed has obviously ruined his world.
Naturally, he goes to someone he knows can help, Doctor Strange. We see
Strange perform some sort of spell that is meant to erase the world’s
memory of Peter being Spiderman. If you watch closely, there are four
gold bands surrounding Strange and Peter, which could signify the four
universes that are colliding together; the Web universe, the MCU, the
Raimi universe and the Venom universe. This is when things get really
interesting, though.

Strange tells Peter that “visitors” came from different universes with
the spell and then we see just exactly who he was talking about. The
characters include Green Goblin (Willem Dafoe), Doc Ock (Alfred Molina),
Electro (Jaimie Fox), The Lizard (Rhys Ifans) and Sandman (Thomas Haden
Church). All of these villains have been introduced in past Spiderman
universes, and are now showing up in this one.

There is a lot of action in this trailer, and also a great scene between
Doc Ock and Spiderman. A lot of fans have speculated that Doc Ock is
able to absorb Peter's nanotech suit and use it to his advantage,
because there are times where Peter has parts of his suit missing. This
isn’t the only time Peter has to worry about suit problems, though. Some
people think there is a whole different suit for when he goes up against
Electro.

Confrontation between Peter and Doctor Strange is frequent in this
trailer, and will most likely be constant in the movie. Strange told
Peter it was the fate of the various villains to die at the hands of
Spiderman, but Peter seems to be conflicted about that. When Peter talks
to Aunt May, he tells her that he can’t save everyone. Does he mean he
can’t save his universe as well as these villains from their own fate?

Near the end of the trailer we get a glimpse of MJ (Zendaya)*,* and it
seems she is falling to her death, but Spiderman is there reaching out
to save her. This is a parallel to Andrew Garfeild’s Spiderman movie,
where he watches Gwen Stacey fall to her own death. This is a major
reason why so many people assume Tobey Macguire and Andrew Garfield are
going to have cameos in this movie, which is any Marvel fan's dream.
Unfortunately, it has not yet been officially confirmed.

Are you excited for *No Way Home* now that you’ve heard so many
breakdowns and theories? I’ll definitely be watching this movie the day
it comes out and it already looks like one of Marvel's most memorable
movies yet.

Image source:

[*https://www.theverge.com/2021/2/24/22299339/spider-man-movie-title-no-way-home-tom-holland/*](https://www.theverge.com/2021/2/24/22299339/spider-man-movie-title-no-way-home-tom-holland/)
