---
author: awong
image: assets/images/2021-10-30-not-so-scary-halloween-movies.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Not-So-Scary Halloween Movies"
---

Halloween is a celebration of everything that is frightening. From
ghosts to gargoyles to going to a party where you don’t know anybody,
Halloween preys on everybody’s fears. Many people turn to movie
marathons to fully honour this spooky holiday. Horror classics like
*Night of the Living Dead* and *Scream* are usually mainstays. But what
about the people who are in it for the treats and not the tricks? There
is no reason to be ashamed of wanting to sleep at night (Halloween this
year is on a Sunday, after all). This list is for people wanting to “dip
their toes” into the pool of horror but not fully submerge themselves.

***Coraline***

My first recommendation is *Coraline*. It's the first creepy movie from
the stop motion company LAIKA set in Oregon. The second is *ParaNorman*,
which is also amazing and worth a watch.

When Coraline has to move from Michigan to Oregon, she loses all of her
friends, and her parents become too busy to spend time with her. All of
this time alone leads her to become fascinated with the strange door in
the apartment she lives in. She soon discovers it leads to the
Otherworld, a world that is a mirror of her own. At first it seems
wondrous and full of amazing surprises, but soon the delights the
Otherworld offers turn to danger. Coraline carefully walks the tightrope
between horror and fantasy and is a twisted dark fairy tale. The movie
is visually stunning. Every character has their own personality and
quirks that make them unique and unquestionably memorable, from
Coraline's parents being gardening bloggers who hate gardening to her
neighbor Mr. Bobinsky, who trains mice for a circus. It also boasts one
of the best opening credits scenes I have seen in any movie. Like the
Otherworld does for Coraline, this film will suck you into a world you
never want to leave.

***Happy Death Day***

*Happy Death Day* is a joy to watch. Its premise is simple and works
brilliantly: what if Groundhog Day was remade as a slasher film? The
main character, Tree, is having a horrible day. She wakes up in the bed
of someone she doesn't know, her lunch is ruined when she has chocolate
milk spilled on her and she’s stabbed on the way to a party by a person
wearing a baby mask. To make matters worse, she's stuck in a time loop!
To escape, Tree has to figure out how to stop her own murder and the
find the identity of the person behind it. *Happy Death Day* rings true
to the fact it’s a popcorn flick, and has fun with its premise while
creating sympathetic, likeable characters. Jessica Roth's Tree is a
great scream queen who you honestly root for. This is also due in part
to Roth's committed performance. The film is light on gore and
jump-scares, so it's perfect for someone who is looking to build up
their scare tolerance. I would also recommend some of director
Christopher Landon’s other films, like *Freaky*.

***Little Shop of Horrors***

It's a classic tale of boy, girl and plant. Seymour only wants two
things in the world: to get out of skid row, and the affection of his
coworker Audrey. He discovers that the solution to his problems is a
strange and unusual plant he names Audrey II. The plant soon gains
popularity, but with that popularity comes a hunger for human flesh.
*Little Shop of Horrors* is not only a horror-comedy, but also a
musical. It 100% delivers on every one of those elements without feeling
like it tries too hard. The horror elements are not scary, but they have
impressive practical effects, like the construction and operation of
Audrey II. The movie’s offbeat humor is unique and explosively funny,
ranging from Steve Martin’s masochistic dentist’s big musical number to
Bill Murray’s cameo. Its music was composed by Alan Menken and Harold
Ashman, the driving forces behind the “Disney Renaissance”, which
includes iconic films like *The Little Mermaid* and *Beauty and the
Beast*. This film has heaps of heart and charm. It's almost impossible
to leave the film without feeling connected to its two ​​idiosyncratic
leads Audrey and Seymour. This film also has (literally) pitch-perfect
casting, including Ellen Greene who was the original Audrey in the
off-Broadway production and Rick Moranis, who brings a great vulnerable
quality to Seymour.

***Halloweentown***

*Halloweentown* is a wonderful, whimsical movie. It captures the spirit
of Halloween through a younger child’s eyes. Aggie and her siblings are
not allowed to celebrate Halloween. When their grandmother visits, they
are introduced to a whole new world they knew nothing about:
Halloweentown. They quickly become attached to the weird, yet
magnificent new setting, but soon learn that it’s threatened by dark
forces. *Halloweentown* is one of the better Disney Channel original
movies. Debbie Reynolds embodies Aggie, the grandmother of the Cromwell
children, perfectly. The movie celebrates all Halloween monsters without
making them scary and humanizes them by putting them in the domestic
setting of Halloweentown. I personally have a soft spot for the trope of
taking an element from the fantasy, sci-fi, or horror genre and putting
it into a realistic setting. If you decide to watch *Halloweentown,* I
would recommend making this a double feature and watching the sequel
*Halloweentown II*.

I hope you enjoy the suggestions. Have a great Halloween, and remember,
as Ron Burgundy says: “Stay classy San Diego”!

Image source: Creative Commons

[*https://search.creativecommons.org/photos/8c84050e-153b-47bc-add3-77f51a4f9167*](https://search.creativecommons.org/photos/8c84050e-153b-47bc-add3-77f51a4f9167)