---
author: rsyed
image: assets/images/anime_club.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "🥓 BREAKING NEWS: NEW VIRUS HAS BEEN DISCOVERED AND HAS INFECTED OVER 1,000,000 PEOPLE"
---

The Coronavirus is rapidly spreading, with over 126 million cases and
2.76 million deaths. But that is not the virus we should be concerned
about.

Four days ago, students at the University of Toronto found an unknown
strain of virus in a young man’s bloodstream. He had been going on about
the anime *The Promised Neverland* nonstop. He also had an extremely
high fever, a sore throat, severe pain in his chest and a splitting
headache. Two days later, he fell into a coma, after his sister had told
him that his waifu was not real and passed away twelve hours later.

Ever since then, Canadian citizens started showing similar symptoms as
the deceased man. From the research, medical scientists have gathered
that this virus is caused by watching anime, reading manga and/or light
novels, as well as playing anime styled video games. As a result,
victims will gain a sudden obsession of Japanese pop culture. Due to
this, researchers have decided to call this strain of virus “Animeitis”.

“My daughter has always found anime “geeky” and “childish”. Next thing I
know, she is hooked on the *Jojo’s Bizarre Adventure* franchise*.* She
has been binge watching it nonstop,” a tearful mother reports.

There have also been reports of individuals believing that anime is real
or that they are in an anime. For instance, a woman in Vancouver has
been trying to awaken her “Quirk” to no avail. She has also started
cosplaying as characters from *My Hero Academia*.

This virus has already infected millions of people across Canada, as
well as a few hundred cases in the States. Many provinces are now in
lockdown, including Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, British Columbia and
Alberta. President Joe Biden is considering putting the entire U.S. in
lockdown as well. Many world leaders have also put their countries in
lockdown, as they are afraid their own citizens suffer Animeitis as
well.

We still have little knowledge on Animeitis, but Ontario’s Ministry of
Health’s President, Iain Stewart, has told us which symptoms to watch
out for, as well as how to prevent the virus from spreading further.

“The usual symptoms of COVID-19; fatigue, fever, sore throat, diarrhea,
headaches, and difficulty breathing are present. A sudden obsession with
anime, and in worst cases, believing that it is nonfiction are the
symptoms that differentiate Animeitis from the superior virus.” Stewart
says. “As for precautions to take, don’t go outside unless you
absolutely have to. If you do, wear a mask and avoid interacting with
people. Since the virus can spread at a wide range compared to the
coronavirus, stay at least twelve feet away from others instead of only
seven. Wash your hands frequently and sanitize. Avoid touching your
face, eyes, nose and mouth. And most importantly, do not come into
contact with anything anime based.”

“And if your loved ones have been infected, do *not,* under any
circumstances, tell them that anime is not real. This will cause them to
either have a severe heart attack or stroke. All individuals who have
been told this harsh reality have died shortly after,” he reports
gravely. “Instead, have them self-isolate immediately. The recovery
process is the exact same as COVID-19. If we work together, we can
combat Animeitis.”

Animeitis is still being researched around the world and a vaccine is
yet to be developed. One major question being asked is if it is possible
for those infected with the virus to become sicker upon being further
exposed to Japanese entertainment, including anime, JMMORPGS, manga,
light novels and J-pop. But rest assured that once infected, cases will
not worsen. All we can do now is pray that we can put an end to this
before it gets out of hand.

*This article is part of "The Bacon" - The Beacon's April Fools' edition. We hope you enjoyed!*

---

Quarantine can be quite boring, so here are some anime series for
victims to stream while they recover.

### Seraph Of The End

**Genres:** Action, Apocalyptic And Post Apocalyptic Fiction, Dark
Fantasy, Drama, Military, Supernatural, Vampire

**Summary:** Set in 2012, the world allegedly comes to an end at the
hands of a fatal virus, wiping out most of the human population and
leaving only children under the age of thirteen untouched. It is at this
time that vampires emerge from the shadows of the Earth and take the
surviving children as their food source. Eight years later, a young teen
named Yūichirō Hyakuya joins the Japanese Imperial Demon Army, an
organization dedicated to exterminating vampires, to avenge the deaths
of his orphaned family and reclaim his best friend, Mikaela Hyakuya,
from the vampires.

### Steins;Gate

**Genres:** Comedy, Drama, Psychological Thriller, Science Fiction,
Thriller

**Summary:** The series follows Rintaro Okabe, a self proclaimed mad
scientist who works with his roommates on a microwave that can transfer
messages to the future. Without getting captured by an evil
organization, SERN, the group of scientists must work together to stop
SERN’s diabolical plans.

### Tokyo Ghoul

**Genres:** Dark Fantasy, Drama, Horror, Mystery, Psychological
Thriller, Supernatural, Thriller

**Summary:** A university student, Ken Kaneki, goes on a date with the
girl of his dreams, Rize Kamishiro, only to discover that she is
actually a ghoul, a man-eating being that lives off human flesh, who
attempts to kill him. By some miracle, Rize dies before she can eat
Kaneki, leaving him in critical condition. When he wakes up in the
hospital, Kaneki discovers that the doctors saved his life by
implementing Rize’s organs in his body, turning him into a half-ghoul.
Horrified by this new reality, Kaneki is taken in by the owner and
employees of Anteiku, a coffee shop run by ghouls, who teach Kaneki how
to deal with his life as a newly turned ghoul.

### Haikyuu!!

**Genres:** Comedy, Coming Of Age, Drama, High School, Sports,

**Summary:** Shouyou Hinata decides to revive his middle school’s
volleyball team after being inspired by the volleyball legend known as
“Little Giant”. This newly formed team makes it to the tournament, only
to be brutally beaten by Tobio Kageyama, the so-called “King Of The
Court”. Hinata vows to suppress Kageyama. After graduating from middle
school, Hinata joins Karasuno High School’s volleyball team- only to
realize Kageyama is one of his teammates. Due to his short height,
Hinata struggles to find his role in the team, even with his incredible
jumping height. However, he soon comes to realize that Kageyama has his
own problems that only Hinata can help with. As the team spends time
together, they learn they can only be successful if they work together.


Image Source: The Ryerson Anime Club by Student from
[https://why.ryerson.ca/the-ryerson-anime-club/](https://why.ryerson.ca/the-ryerson-anime-club/)
