---
author: mhutzul
image: assets/images/2021-11-26-Why-The-Eternals-Was-Actually-Good.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Why The Eternals Was Actually Good"
---

If you haven’t been living under a rock since 2008, you’ve probably
heard of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. You know, that massive franchise
of interconnected superhero blockbusters filled with one-liners,
(mostly) forgettable villains, and a big-budget third act beatdown. I
personally love Marvel movies, flaws and all, and most people tend to
agree. Out of 26 films, not one has gotten overwhelmingly bad reviews -
at least, until the *Eternals*. *Eternals* came out this November, with
a 47 percent on Rotten Tomatoes and negative reviews accusing it of
being uninspiring and confusing.

I have a bit of a controversial opinion - I loved the *Eternals*. It
focuses on a group of immortal beings, sent to earth 7000 years ago to
protect the population from the monstrous Deviants. Centuries ago, they
defeated the deviants and went their separate ways, but when a deviant
comes to London in 2026, the team must reunite to save the world. Most
of the film follows Sersi, one of the Eternals, who attempts to find the
others and stop the upcoming emergence (your standard Marvel movie end
of the world fare). This takes a while - there are ten Eternals who
rejoin the team one by one - but Sersi’s journey takes her all across
the world. The flamboyant Kingo has become a Bollywood star, and his
interactions with his valet provide a lot of the humor in the movie.
Druig, an immortal burdened with the power of controlling human minds,
has shut himself away in an isolationist community. All of the settings
are so different and the characters introduced are compelling enough
that it doesn’t feel like a drag.

The movie really shines when it explores the characters and their
interactions with each other throughout history. They’ve been around
basically forever, and had their hand in shaping history. Thena is known
to the Greeks as their goddess of war Athena. The tech genius Phastos
created much of human technology. Sersi’s creations are prized as
historical artifacts. The Eternals build a family through the ages, and
the character dynamics are really fun to see. There are romantic
relationships (such as Sersi and Ikaris) and platonic ones (like
Gilgamash and Thena’s deep bond). Although the movie has a large number
of new characters to introduce, the flashbacks and time spent fleshing
out each character helps give all of them a recognizable personality.

*Eternals* is the most diverse Marvel film by far, not only with regards
to ethnicity, but also disability and sexuality. The super-speeding
Makkari is the first deaf superhero, and is played by a woman of colour.
Thena suffers from a form of mental illness the movie calls Mahd Wy’ry,
and neither her struggles or heroism take a backseat during her journey.
Finally, the genius eternal Phastos is the first superhero to openly be
depicted as gay in a Marvel movie, an important and long overdue attempt
at inclusion.

I won’t deny that the *Eternals* has flaws. It tries to introduce too
many characters and span too many centuries at once, and ends up feeling
a little overstuffed. Nonetheless, it has heart, compelling character
relationships, and a desire to show an accurate and diverse
representation of what a superhero should be. This movie is well worth
the watch!

Image Source:

[*https://www.pulse.ng/entertainment/movies/marvels-eternals-now-showing-in-nigerian-cinemas/c107rbg/*](https://www.pulse.ng/entertainment/movies/marvels-eternals-now-showing-in-nigerian-cinemas/c107rbg/)

