---
author: smehta
image: assets/images/2021-11-30-DUNE-OSCAR-WORTHY-OR-OVERHYPED.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "DUNE: OSCAR-WORTHY OR OVERHYPED?"
---
We’ve all heard about *Dune*, the box office hit that packed theatres
when it came out in October 2021. It marked a return to cinema, both
literally and metaphorically. For months in advance, it was advertised
through billboards, movie previews, and Timothee Chalamet’s Instagram.
But after the whole 2 hours and 35 minutes were over, was it all it was
cracked up to be?

*Dune* was a big deal before it was even finished, with good reason.
When Frank Hubert’s novel *Dune* -- which the film is based on -- was
published in 1965, it became an instant classic of science fiction. It
approached the genre with humanity, depicting a distant future where
humans still grappled with the relationship between religion and
politics, the ethics of monarchy, and the way physical land shapes
cultures and their people. All that in only 800 pages.

*Dune* was a landmark novel beloved by an entire generation of sci-fi
readers. That made it perfect for a film adaptation by the renowned
master of the absurd, David Lynch, in 1984. The improving special
effects of the time helped, and the film’s art design is praised to this
day. But the performances of the film's actors (namely, Sting - yes, the
musician) and the feel of a 10-hour film packed into 2 hours, thanks to
Lynch’s 4-hour cut being vetoed, resulted in a mess of a movie that lost
millions of dollars at the box office. Today, Lynch still considers the
film one of his greatest failures.

For 34 years, no one else made a real attempt at *Dune*. So when Denis
Villenueve announced that he was slated to direct a new version in 2018
-- fresh off of critically-acclaimed *Arrival* and *Blade Runner 2049*
-- hopes were high. He even announced the initial decision to make the
film in two parts, ensuring fans wouldn’t have to deal with another
Lynch-like result.

The revelations that stars like Timothee Chalamet and Zendaya had signed
on only added more fuel to the already huge *Dune* fire. It seemed that
a pop culture obsession and cinematic masterpiece might combine to
create one massive, unstoppable blockbuster. Even the pandemic delaying
*Dune*’s release date from December 2020 to October 2021 didn’t bust its
flow; it created a kind of long-haul buzz, like getting enthusiastic
about your birthday a month in advance. It created hype.

The novelty of Hubert’s book and the failure of Lynch’s film attempt
helped make *Dune* so anticipated. If Lynch couldn’t do it, who could?
It made Villenueve’s attempt feel all the more risky. Jason Momoa, Oscar
Isaac and Rebecca Ferguson were added to the cast, and forget subtlety
-- if the film tanked, the world would know.

When *Dune* came out, audiences were prepared to be wowed. And so they
were. The cinematography, the score, the performances, the production
design, and the costume design (among other things) had praise pouring
in left and right. Not to mention that *Dune* dominated the box office
on its opening weekend with a smashing $47 million. It was official-
*Dune* had been received and loved, and the hype was worth it.

Or was it?

When I saw *Dune* opening weekend, I thought it was beautiful. The
cinematography was larger than life; the performances were applaudable;
the score was -- in traditional Hans Zimmer fashion -- transporting. In
all respects, it was a beautiful film.

But was it everything I’d expected of it? Was it phenomenal, best-ever
great, like the level of hype around it’s release had promised? The
simple answer is no.

For a film so advertised and talked about, I’d expected genuine
perfection, or close to it. I wasn’t expecting a flat portrayal of the
plot, only 7 minutes of Zendaya, or an unfinished ending that teased a
sequel without ever providing a full story arc. I was disappointed. The
film had been advertised and word-of-mouthed as a masterpiece, and it
simply wasn’t.

If I hadn’t known that *Dune* was as anticipated as it was, I would’ve
thought it was better. I would’ve been pleasantly surprised by the
cinematography and performances, casually unimpressed by the lineralness
of the plot, but pleased nonetheless. But knowing the film had already
been established as a Big Deal™ almost made me search for flaws to point
out. For example, there were a few too many thousand-yard stares, shots
of sand blowing in the wind, and blank, angry faces for my liking. Those
shots looked tacky and suggestive of more depth than they actually
possessed. If I hadn’t known of *Dune*’s preconceived excitement, I
might’ve been less critical and thought those shots were emotionally
contemplative.

It seemed to me that *Dune*’s quiet downfall was its hype. It built
unattainable expectations for the film. It also seemed like no one was
ready to admit the film’s flaws, not after such an extensive wait. It’s
like it would be almost personally demoralizing to quash one’s own
excitement with critiques.

So when I see raving reviews about *Dune*, I think twice about their
validity. Do people think the film’s great because it’s really great, or
because they expected it to be, or because it seems like everyone else
likes it? It raises the question of whether wide anticipation and
advertising damage the art of a film and the truth of its merit. At what
point does a film stop being a film and become a blockbuster?

I won’t go as far to say that *Dune* was bad, because it wasn’t. It was
in many ways a marvel of set design, cinematography, and performance.
But that doesn’t mean that it was great.

Of course, it’s still going to win an Oscar.

Image taken by [*Aidan Schreder*](https://mcibeacon.com/member/aidan-schreder)
