---
author: fsheikh
image: assets/images/2021-11-25-Slipping-into-the-French-Revolution.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Slipping into the French Revolution"
---

In the summer of 1901, two English women walking the grounds of the
Palace of Versailles noticed small distortions in their reality, such as
the wind not blowing in the trees, a lack of light and shade effect, and
the world taking on a lifeless and flat appearance. Charlotte Anne
Moberly and Eleanor Jourdain are recorded as the first people to
experience a timeslip during their visit to Paris in the summer of 1901.
They wrote a book, called *An Adventure*, in 1911 to describe their
experience.

Timeslips are a paranormal phenomenon where people go about their day
and are temporarily transported into either the past or future. However,
they typically remain in the same location through supernatural means
instead of technological means.

According to their book, as Moberly and Jourdain continued the
“unnatural” appearance of their surroundings started to fade away. They
encountered a man they found “repulsive” with “rough skin” and a young
woman, wearing outdated clothing, who was sketching on the grass. One of
the women felt the need to turn away from the sketching woman as her
presence made the woman feel incredibly annoyed. They were directed to
an entrance hall by a jaunty man, where they witnessed a wedding party.
From there, the women decided to take a carriage back to Jourdain’s
apartment. They found this experience strange so they decided to return
to the Palace of Versailles on a later date. Upon their return, the
women realized that many landmarks they had encountered during their
initial visit were no longer there and noticed large numbers of people
crowding the areas of the palace that had been empty the day of their
initial visit. They found this odd, as they had gone during the day and
spent hours in the Palace without encountering people other than the
aforementioned characters. They made inquiries, checking if the palace
had been booked on the day of their initial visit, but there were no
private bookings that day. They realized later that the people they
encountered resembled members of Marie Antoinette’s court. The man with
the “rough skin” was the 18th-century French nobleman, Comte de
Vaudreuil. The woman on the grass is believed to have been Marie
Antoniette herself, on the same day she learned of the mob that stormed
the Palace of Tuileries. How these women “slipped” into the start of the
French Revolution remains unclear.

There are a multitude of explanations for the phenomenon Moberly and
Jourdain, and thousands more experienced. Some are rooted in the
paranormal, ranging from alien intervention to those who experience said
phenomena being born with supernatural “gifts”. Other explanations point
towards hysteria, severe mental illness, or some kind of psychological
disturbance that altered one’s perception of their present reality.
Different arguments conclude that cunning individuals are putting up a
facade for public attention. The most plausible explanation seems to be
a mixture of hoaxes and possible psychological and mental ailments. A
variety of different and seemingly harmless factors can contribute to
disturbances in the nervous system, which may send mixed signals to the
brain which could alter one’s perception of reality. Timeslips make us
think if our conscience can be trusted to be honest at all times.

Image source:

[*https://pixels.com/featured/1-palace-of-versailles-pixabay.html/*](https://pixels.com/featured/1-palace-of-versailles-pixabay.html/)