---
author: ssahni
image: assets/images/2022-02-15-Ukrainian-Russian-Conflict-Explained.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Ukrainian-Russian Conflict Explained"
---

“I am confident that true sovereignty of Ukraine is possible only in
partnership with Russia”, Russian President, Vladamir Putin wrote in
July 2021. Putin constructs a narrative where Ukraine is being
controlled by the West, and his invasion will lead to the unification of
two lost destined regions. The Russian President is trying to achieve a
strategic purpose by manipulating Ukraine. 100,000 Russian troops are
placed on the border of Ukraine. It is believed that Russia has enough
forces positioned at the moment to invade all of Ukraine. At first,
Russia claimed that it was only holding routine military exercises near
Ukraine, but then they started setting up field hospitals, which
indicates preparation for war. Cyberattacks from Russia have defaced the
Ukrainian government’s public websites and they can further manipulate
banking, transportation, and electrical systems. This could wreak havoc
on the structure of society in Ukraine.

Russia and Ukraine are historically linked as a group of people called
Rus moved to the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, and then spread out to regions
in modern Russia today. Ukraine was a republic of the former Soviet
Union after World War II until it declared its independence in August
1991. Putin has brought this up to justify his actions like in the
article he wrote on the historical unity of Russians and Ukrainians
“together we have always been and will be many times stronger and more
successful. For we are one people.” The Soviet Union dissipated into 15
republics, but in a post-USSR world, the Russian and Ukrainian
economies, culture, and politics remain deeply interconnected. In 2014,
the Ukrainian people forced their pro-Russian leader into exile and
Russia responded with an invasion to maintain Russian influence, not
wanting to lose Ukraine to the West. Russia seized power over Ukraine’s
the Crimean Peninsula. Soon after, a civil war broke out in Eastern
Ukraine in the industrial regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, fueled by
Putin, who has backed pro-Russian fighters intending to break off a
chunk of the country. Putin claims that he is defending the rights of
Native Russian speakers in the area.

Putin has dreams of bringing Imperial Russia back to life and NATO’s
increasing influence in the east makes it hard to achieve that goal. The
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) was founded in 1949 to protect
against Soviet aggression. If one nation in NATO is attacked, then all
the third party nations will mobilize their defense. Thirty countries
are a part of NATO, including the former Soviet Republics of Lithuania,
Estonia, and Latvia. Russia wants NATO to return to its pre-1997 borders
and calls for NATO to put a stop to its eastward expansion. If NATO
continues expanding eastward it would increase NATO’s footprint along
Russian borders, making it more vulnerable to an attack.

Putin believed the dissolution of the USSR to be “the greatest
geopolitical catastrophe of the century” he said in an interview in
2005. He compares Russia and Ukraine’s relationship to that of Austria
and Germany or the US and Canada, where people from either country can
travel to the other yet still feel at home. He thinks the West is trying
to sell its ideologies to ex-Soviet countries and wants to invite them
to join NATO which would ruin the relationship between both countries.
Putin has put out a list of demands, which if not met, will be followed
by an attack on Ukraine. Russia has demanded that NATO: stop including
new members, withdraw its troops from Eastern Europe and that America
vow not to protect its allies in Eastern Europe with nuclear weapons.
NATO refuses to deny Ukraine or any other country the right to join
NATO.

The west is not united in its preferred tactics to handle this situation
and all would like to handle the situation differently. This situation
is very delicate and we may not see desirable results if various
countries disagree on how to proceed. There is a very good possibility
Putin meets his goal no matter how the rest of the world responds. If
Putin's demands are met, he eliminates the threat NATO could have on
Russia, and if not, he will move forward with war, and he gets to spread
his influence further in the east. The people of Ukraine currently stand
on the brink of war as the world watches world leaders decide their
fate. Stay tuned for the next issue to find out more.

Image source:

[*https://pixabay.com/photos/putin-politics-kremlin-russia-2847423/*](https://pixabay.com/photos/putin-politics-kremlin-russia-2847423/)
