---
author: aharris
image: assets/images/man_in_red_coat-_credit_to_fiza_sheikh.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "The Man in the Red Leather Coat"
---


\*It should be noted that all characters in this story are fictional and 
not based on any real-life people, situations or events\*

This tale begins on Christmas Eve. It was snowing, and Christine Falmer
was dead. That’s the first thing I always think of. The snow was
unexpected; it had been a warm year, but that night there were nearly
fifty centimetres. And of course, Christine Falmer was dead.

Christine was the girlfriend of my friend, Den and boy, she was hot.
Okay, sorry, I know that sounds bad. I didn’t really know her, I must
confess. But I liked her. *Everybody* liked her. To be honest with you,
I don't know anyone who really knew her, except Den. Den never really
said much about her.

Anyways, back to the story. It was snowing, and Christine Falmer was
dead. The cops found her frozen in a snowbank, with blood everywhere.
Yet, there weren't any wounds to be found on her body. That’s what
everyone agreed on, even Gene Kravitz, who thought they faked the moon
landing and that vaccines gave you herpes. I guess that doesn’t sound
very reliable when you think about it, but the point is *everyone else*
agreed with him, this time.

When she was found everyone went crazy for a bit. Mom demanded I be home
by five, but that proved to be unnecessary. The cops announced a curfew
the next day. I find it funny now, that they thought that would make any
difference. Christine Falmer died at noon. Of course, no one knew that
then, so I can’t fault them for it. I just find it funny.

We kids were scared too. I stayed at Den’s house most of the day, with
Malek and Francisco too. That’s where I heard about the monster.

Malek was the one who saw it first. He told us, in hushed tones, that he
had seen a stranger with a red coat around town in the weeks leading up
to Christmas. “Red leather, like a biker.” He told us that he looked
normal at first, but then Malek caught a glimpse of his eyes, and the
man changed, somehow.

I was skeptical, but then Den and Francisco shared their stories. I was
the only one who hadn’t seen the man in the red leather coat.

A bit of background is needed for this next part. I’ve always been a bit
of an odd kid. I was the kind of kid the teacher made sit alone because
I never got along with others. Den adopted me, and since Malek and
Francisco were his friends, I hung out with them. Yet, after all my time
spent with them, I never could shake the feeling that I was the odd one
out.

One night, I left Den’s house early after I spent the evening over. I
felt alone even though all my friends were present. I walked along the
gray sidewalk in the dark when I finally saw him. When I saw the man, he
didn’t just look at me. I remember his eyes opening wider than they had
any right to and his sockets being filled with jagged, bloody teeth.
Never in my life had I wanted to cry, curl up and die, as badly as I did
at that moment. The feeling of loneliness and fear swallowed me as I
closed my eyes as tight as I could, anticipating the worst. When I
finally opened them, the monstrous man had been replaced by Christine
Falmer. She looked five, maybe six, and held out her hand to me. I
reached for it. Yet, something felt deeply wrong, I felt like something
terrible was drawing me in like I was sinking in molasses, but I didn’t
care. I suddenly didn’t feel so lonely, for once in my life I felt
whole. that drug-like feeling was stronger than any doubts.

To this day, I am not 100 percent sure if I truly did see Christine that
night, but I am sure that I would have been dead had it not been for
Malek, Den, and Franc. The memory remains a haze, but one minute I was
reaching for Christine’s hand, and the next I was laying in a puddle of
blood, I'm not sure whose. I was desperately clinging to consciousness,
and all I could hear was the struggle of the three as they wrestled the
man in the red leather coat.

I was never filled in on what truly happened that night. We all
acknowledged the horror brought on by that night but the event was never
recounted. All I know is the man fled, to where I have no idea. Den
managed to get a piece of the man’s jacket during the struggle, and it
was full of writhing maggots.

The boys brought me home to my panicked and worried mother. She cried
and hugged us all when she found out what happened. Whether or not she
believes us is up for debate but she never questioned me about it. I
asked Den how they’d found me, and he said they were worried after I
left so quickly and they decided to go after me.

Den never quite got over Christine. Her abrupt death and the shut and
closed case would plague him for years to come. We concluded that we
knew exactly what had happened to Christine, and we visit her grave
every year with flowers.

Ever since that fateful night, I no longer feel lonely. I no longer feel
like the odd one out. I no longer feel so scared. I’m more alive than
ever.
