---
author: gkoceku
image: assets/images/2022-02-15-Improving-Your-Mental-Health-During-the-Pandemic.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Improving Your Mental Health During the Pandemic"
---

It is natural to feel anxiety during the times we live in. The COVID-19
pandemic has taken a mental toll on students and teachers alike. We have
had to go through constantly changing circumstances, which has caused
many people to struggle with their mental health. In times of great
stress, we all need some time to slow down and unwind. Here are three
great ways to help yourself and those around you manage the pressure.

1.  Develop a Healthy Routine

A crucial part of mental health is to develop healthy habits. It’s
always important to take care of yourself, and there are many ways to
start. You can try to eat healthy and well balanced meals, as well as
exercise regularly. Also, remember to get at least 8 hours of sleep.
These small, yet intentional changes can boost self esteem and actually
make you feel good about yourself. If you get used to these routines, it
can boost your self image and improve your mental wellbeing.

2.  Take a Break from the News

It's normal to want to know all the facts by looking at the news, but at
the same time, it's also important to take a break from hearing about
the pandemic. Doing activities that you enjoy, such as going on walks,
creating artwork, or watching TV, can boost your mental health greatly.

3.  Talk with Friends and Family

Thirdly, connecting with your friends and family is very important
during times of social isolation. You can have phone or video calls,
virtual game nights, or text one another. Getting in touch with others
and, either talking about your feelings or choosing to take your mind
off of them, will certainly make you feel less lonely. These things can
help you feel more connected to the fact that we are all braving through
the pandemic together.

With the pandemic having caused unfamiliar situations, like virtual
school, lockdowns, and limited social gatherings, we are no doubt living
in stressful times. The ever-changing circumstances and responsibilities
in life can also make it hard to adapt, and certainly don’t make it any
easier. However, if we remember to take care of ourselves through things
like healthy lifestyle habits or connecting with loved ones, then we can
certainly start to improve our mental health, and work towards taking
our lives back.

Image source:

[*https://wordpress.org/openverse/image/332885eb-4758-4794-856b-0f1c262742fb/*](https://wordpress.org/openverse/image/332885eb-4758-4794-856b-0f1c262742fb/)
