---
author: ssahni
image: assets/images/saca_diwali_event.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "SACA's Samosa Sale"
---

Diwali is an auspicious Hindu festival, also known as the “festival of
lights,” celebrating the return of King Rama after defeating the evil
Ravana.

On Wednesday October 26th, MCI’s South Asian Cultural Association (SACA)
shared a piece of their culture with us by organizing a samosa sale and
henna booth.

The line extended from the parking lot entrance doors in the foyer to
the Bear's Den. Students faced the risk of being trampled over by the
restlessly hungry crowd. Nonetheless, they prioritized the samosas over
themselves.

Were the Samosas Worth It?

As a lifetime Indian, I give this samosa my stamp of approval. These
samosas perfectly balance the spices, and the veggies to potato ratio,
capturing the taste and the essence of an authentic version of this
South Asian delicacy. Henoc from Grade 12 rates the Samosas “10/ 10” as
“ \[t\]hey were fire.”

The dish was well seasoned, perfectly spiced to not make you cry, but
enough to make your mouth water. According to Muna in Grade 12, “All the
spices come together beautifully.” Some disagreed, such as Hibaaq from
Grade 11 who thought that the samosa was “very tasteful, but needed more
pepper.”

The portion sizes could have been a little better to make for a more
filling snack. However, you can always buy more as the prices were
jaw-droppingly good. Two samosas for just a dollar! Inflation seems to
not have caught up with these samosa prices.

Overall Rating: 4.5/5

Follow @mcisaca on Instagram to be reminded about future SACA Samosa
sales.

**Pro Tip-** Come a few minutes early to beat the rush and get chutney
before it runs out.
