---
author: fsheikh
image: assets/images/Verity_Colleeen_Hoover_-_Fiza_Sheikh1.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Verity: Colleen Hoover’s Pathetic Attempt at a Romantic Thriller"
---


Colleen Hoover. You either know exactly who she is or this name is 
absolutely foreign to you. If you have any interest in reading, and 
actively use social media platforms like Tiktok, you are bound to be 
familiar with at least some of Hoover’s work. She's known for her young 
adult romance novels that aren't afraid to touch on taboo subject 
matter. Her wildly popular series “It Ends With Us” being an excellent 
example, touching on the complexities of the trauma brought on by 
domestic abuse.

I first heard of the book *Verity* earlier this year from an instagram
reel that briefly detailed the horrors encompassed within the three
hundred and fourteen page novel. I, being someone with a life-long
passion for indulging in disturbing literature, had concluded that I
needed to get my hands on this book one way or another. Soon enough I
found the book on clearance at Walmart. Whether my prayers had been
answered or I had been bestowed with a curse was debatable. I read it
from cover to cover within a matter of seventy-two hours. I have never
picked up a work by Colleen Hoover again.

I detest spoilers, therefore, I am warning the readers of potential
spoilers. The novel opens with the gut-wrenching line of “I hear the
crack of his skull before the splattering of blood reaches me.” This
disturbing first line cages the reader's attention as the novel
continues on by following the protagonist, Lowen Ashleigh, a struggling
author living in New York, who is offered to complete the last three
books in the popular “The Noble Virtues” series, written by Verity
Crawford, who was left unable to complete the series after an accident.
Lowen accepts the offer, and is invited by Verity’s attractive husband,
Jeremy, to come and stay with him, Verity and their young son, as she
scavenges Verity’s office for anything that could help her complete the
book series. However, Lowen stumbles upon a manuscript written by Verity
that was never intended to be seen by anyone. The manuscript contains
details of Verity’s life from the first day she met Jeremy and goes into
horrific detail about the death of Verity’s autistic daughter a few
months after the death of her twin sister. The manuscript is packed with
sickening passages entailing the twisted and disturbed mind of Verity as
she navigates her relationship with Jeremy and her absolute hatred for
motherhood.

Hoover’s novel spans three hundred and fourteen pages with only one
hundred pages contributing to the plot. The remainder is mostly cringe
worthy sex scenes between Jeremy and Lowen or Jeremy and Verity. It is
impressive how much smut Hoover was able to squeeze into a novel about a
delirious women who potentially murdered her autistic daughter. Sex
within literature can add to the plot or add more depth to a character.
However, this is all pointless sex that does nothing for the plot. I
want to know why Verity felt as though her twin daughters were competing
against her to gain her husband’s affections, not how many different
ways it's humanly possible to have intercourse.

Though the premise of the plot itself has kept me on edge for the entire
duration of the book, Hoover focused more on the explicit scenes rather
than properly executing the plot, especially with the ending. This
resulted in the story contradicting itself at times, leaving the reader
less thrilled and more confused. I also found that the romance between
Lowen and Jeremy felt rushed and forced onto the readers. The reader is
barely three pages into the book when they are already bombarded with
hints at a potential relationship between the two. Additionally,
Hoover’s novel is written in a casual style, and occasionally her
potential as a writer shines through with her use of commentary. Hoover
is excellent at writing about situations and the feelings they evoke
emotions. However, there isn’t much of anything beyond that.

“Trauma p\*rn” is an internet term used to describe media in which
characters seem to go through never-ending pain and suffering. This term
is an excellent way to describe the lack of dimension Hoover gives to
her characters, with their only depth being how sad and traumatized they
are. The three main characters of the novel all fit into cliches seen
again and again within the young adult fiction category; the
self-absorbed diva, the not-so-smart hunk and the shy nerd who is the
polar opposite to the diva. Although, to give Hoover some credit,
Verity’s character is the most well developed, as the book does an
excellent job at painting her as a beautiful and successful writer who
deep down is a psychopath unable to feel any compassion for her own
blood and flesh.

Colleen Hoover’s work proved lackluster, leaving me with a sense that I
have finished reading a semi-well written Wattpad fanfiction. Her work
is nothing extraordinary, and it's in her best interest she leaves
thrillers to more skillful authors.
