---
author: rpannu
image: assets/images/End_of_2022-_Anneli_Aloe.png
layout: post
tags: []
title: "The End of 2022"
---


As the year slowly ticks down, I like to reminisce about all that has 
happened in 2022. At the beginning of this year, it might have been cold 
and dark, but at least we started recovering from the pandemic. School 
was stressful for many of us in spring, but once tests and culminations 
were done, July seemed closer than ever. With the end of the school year 
came the summer break; but unfortunately, summer came and went far too 
quickly. Nonetheless, it was still fun.

You know what comes next. The start of school was nerve-wracking and
exciting at the same time. We all remember how stressed and annoyed we
were as we waited in the long line outside the guidance office. Yet, the
first day of school was still refreshing. Watching the grade nines
running around with seemingly limitless energy never gets old. After a
while, though, everyone started to miss those warm summer days.
Unfortunately, it will be a while before we can get those back. With the
beginning of school came cold, wet, autumn mornings and dark afternoons,
but spirits still ran high until the dreaded ***midterms***. Hopefully,
nobody did too badly.

Soon after the anguish of report cards was over, the first snowfall
occurred, forcing everyone to bundle up in jackets and sweaters and
prepare for the cold. Of course, there are those few psychopaths who go
outside in -20Â°C weather wearing only a hoodie and flannel pyjama
bottoms.

Now, here we are, saying goodbye to our friends and preparing for a
long, well-deserved winter break. After all that has happened in 2022,
we can finally sit back and enjoy the final few days before the new
year.

Happy holidays Martingrove! Stay safe.
