---
author: smahmud
image: assets/images/2022-06-22-Retirement-Spotlight-A-Look-Into-Ms-Feller’s-Time-at-MCI.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Retirement Spotlight: A Look Into Ms. Feller’s Time at MCI"
---

As the school year comes to a close, so does the 20-year teaching career
of one of MCI’s most impactful teachers: Ms. Feller. Having spent her
entire time as a teacher at Martingrove, Ms. Feller has been involved in
countless school clubs, sports, and activities, and has truly bettered
our school community.

Ms. Feller grew up in Toronto, and received a masters degree in Physical
Education with a minor in English from Western University. Although she
had always wanted to become an educator, it was tough to get a job as a
teacher at the time. Instead, she moved to Ottawa, where she worked in
the Fitness and Amateur Sport department of the federal government.
Following this, she worked for the provincial government as a Probation
and Parole officer in Belleville, Ontario. It was in this role that Ms.
Feller describes the way she got to understand the broader scope of
young people, and became interested in social work. Then, she moved back
to Toronto, where she owned a lighting store and worked as a freelance
tour guide on the history of Toronto and Niagara Falls. (Her favourite
recommendation to visit: the Toronto Islands, as they’re often
undervalued, and it feels like you’ve gone somewhere completely
different in your own city!).

It was not until later in life that Ms. Feller went back to school to
get her teaching degree. With 3 kids and multiple careers under her
belt, she “had a longing and a sense of fulfillment” to become a
teacher. She hoped that it was a better time to get hired, and luckily
got a contract right out of teacher’s college to work at MCI.

While most people know her as the dedicated librarian, Ms. Feller began
her time at MCI teaching English and Phys-ed.. She was a then the main
drama teacher for 7 years; she taught classes, put on various musicals
such as *Grease* and *Chicago,* and helped slowly grow the drama program
throughout these years. Ms. Feller says her first impression of our
school was that it was big, and she felt somewhat out of place. “I felt
a bit lost, much like a grade 9 student! It took some time before I
found my groove.”

In terms of her school involvement, Ms. Feller has done it all. She
started the TEDx club, providing an opportunity for students to speak
and be heard, which was unlike any other school clubs at the time. Ms.
Feller has also worked with Me to We, coached sports teams (curling and
archery), and been a staff advisor for Leadership. She has been the
staff advisor for the Beacon for a few years, working to help nurture
student writing and advocating for the idea of voicing ideas and
opinions. Finally, she has been the head of the library for over 10
years, having found a great passion for it. “Once I got here, it was
like where have you been all my life! I finally found a place that I
believed was so important for the whole school.. The concept that a
place is here to serve the whole community is something I find very
gratifying. I will really miss the library.”

The best thing about working at MCI for Ms. Feller has been working with
students. She explains that working at the school became her life, and
part of her identity. “It is such a blessing to to go somewhere everyday
and have a purpose. I’ve found this job very personal, that you show up
and you’re a somebody.” She has loved being part of school groups that
amplify student voices and highlight student work, because, “when
\[students\] speak about what’s important to them, it teaches me what’s
really going on in the world. The opportunity to hear what they really
want to say about anything is a gift….We’re all learning and growing
with all this new information. We need \[young people\] to help us
understand the world.”

Upon asking if Ms. Feller had any advice for students, she said this:
“If you’re not sure where you’re going, that’s okay. If you’re like me,
try a career, then switch gears and try the next career.. There are no
rules anymore! Maybe you’ll just fall into something, and it ends up
being what you wanted or what you’re meant to do. This tremendous stress
of what you’re going to be- gosh, I never knew and I just figured it out
anyways. If you like it, stay. If you don’t, go. If anything, I’m the
poster child for being curious and open to living your life!”

Ms. Feller doesn’t have any concrete plans for herself during
retirement, and simply wants to see what kinds of doors open for her!
She would also like to do some volunteer work, and possibly travel. Ms.
Feller has been a dependable and influential member of the Martingrove
community for many years, and we wish her all the best in her
retirement!

##### *“I shall pass this way but once; any good that I can do or any kindness I can show let me do it now for I shall not pass this way again.” (*Etienne de Grellet )