---
author: sxiang
image: assets/images/2022-02-15-Two-West-Side-Stories-Old-vs-New.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Two West Side Stories: Old vs New"
---

A spoiler-free comparison of the 1961 and 2021 film adaptations of the
classic Broadway musical *West Side Story*

The musical *West Side Story* by Arthur Laurents, Leonard Bernstein, and
Stephen Sondheim has enthralled audiences for generations, whether it be
onstage or onscreen. The classic Shakespearean tragedy of Romeo and
Juliet finds itself retold in 1960s New York City, amidst a rivalry
between the Jets and the Sharks; two gangs of White and Puerto Rican
teenagers, respectively. One night at a school dance, two teenagers from
these opposing sides, Tony and Maria, meet and fall in love. This
provokes even more animosity between the two gangs, setting off a chain
reaction of tragic events. This review will first compare certain
aspects of the 1961 and 2021 versions of the film, then go in-depth on
particular characters.

*West Side Story* holds a special place in the hearts of BIPOC musical
theatre fans. Musical numbers such as *America* highlight the past and
ongoing injustices against people of colour and immigrants. Many reviews
have labelled the original *West Side Story* as a “diverse” franchise,
and although this is, in part, true, the original Broadway and film
productions of the musical faced controversy for having white actors
play Puerto Rican characters while wearing brownface. The film also
faced criticism from Latinx audiences, who called out the stereotypical
portrayal of Puerto Rican characters and the overall lack of
representation. The 2021 remake, however, features a cast with Latinx
actors playing Latinx roles, something sadly unimaginable in the era of
1960s film. While it is certainly wonderful that the casting in the 2021
remake of *West Side Story* wasn’t blatantly racist, there is still much
progress to be made in terms of BIPOC representation in media. *West
Side Story* is just the beginning of a renaissance of cultural
representation.

The choreography in *West Side Story* has always been legendary.
Five-time Tony winner Jerome Robbins choreographed both the Broadway and
film versions of the play, illuminating the stage and screen with
graceful ballet and characteristics of flamenco. Justin Peck, the
choreographer of *West Side Story* (2021), is also a Tony award-winning
choreographer, and fills the shoes of Robbins flawlessly. Both versions
of the film execute the school dance scene extremely well, but in
particular, the directing in the 2021 version makes it feel as if the
actors are dancing out from the screen. The choreography in the 2021
remake of *West Side Story* seems more energetic than its older version,
but the sixty-year gap in film technology is probably to blame here, as
the camera shots were more limited and stagnant in the 1961 film.

A character often overlooked in *West Side Story* is Anybodys, a wannabe
Jet member. Anybodys was portrayed as a tomboyish girl in the original
film and Broadway versions of *West Side Story*. Yet, the new remake is
the first major production to depict Anybodys as a transmasculine
nonbinary character, played by Iris Menas. Anybodys tries to join the
Jets but is constantly rejected. Eventually, Anybodys plays spy for the
Jets on an important task (no spoilers) and is welcomed into the gang by
a Jet member, Action, who says, “You done good, buddy boy,”, essentially
affirming Anybodys as one of them.

Last but not least, it is imperative to discuss Rita Moreno’s
reappearance in the franchise. Rita Moreno is a Puerto Rican-American
actress who became the first Latina to achieve EGOT status (artists who
have won at least one Emmy Award, Grammy Award, Oscar Award, and Tony
Award) in 1977. Moreno originated the role of Anita in *West Side Story*
on Broadway, and later in the 1961 film, for which she won an Oscar and
a Golden Globe. In the 2021 remake of *West Side Story*, Moreno plays
Valentina, the owner of Doc’s Drug Store. Valentina takes over the role
of Doc in the previous film adaptation, running the pharmacy and giving
Tony a place to stay. In the new film, Valentina is the widow of Doc,
and their love story parallels that of Tony and Maria, the protagonists
of the film— A white man and a Puerto Rican woman fall in love, in a
culture where it is unseemly.

Perhaps one of the most breathtaking performances in the film is
*Somewhere*, sung by Rita Moreno. *Somewhere* is a song about one day
finding an accepting society to live in, and it was initially a duet
between Tony and Maria in the original Broadway and film versions of
*West Side Story*. The remake, however, features *Somewhere* as a solo
by Valentina. This change gives the song a whole new meaning, with the
lyrics referring to Valentina’s past with Doc, instead of referring to
Tony and Maria’s possible future. Moreno delivers a poignant and
lachrymose performance, with stunning live singing (she was even sick at
the time!)

To conclude, both versions of *West Side Story* are phenomenal
masterpieces that will go down in musical theatre history. While they
have their differences, the one thing they have in common is stunning
choreography, and the extraordinary talent of Rita Moreno. In my
opinion, the original film cannot be beat, but both adaptations of *West
Side Story* are truly breathtaking films, and a great place to start if
you want to become acquainted with musical theatre

Image source:

[*https://wordpress.org/openverse/image/998bc99b-7229-4eec-8726-2fce13629f9a/*](https://wordpress.org/openverse/image/998bc99b-7229-4eec-8726-2fce13629f9a/)