---
author: awong
image: assets/images/2022-06-22-We-Are-Bigger-Than-Cancer.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "We Are Bigger Than Cancer"
---

The bright and sunny weather on Wednesday, May 25th, perfectly matched
the mood of everyone attending the **Relay for Life** celebration. More
than 100 people dressed in pirate costumes, lab coats and jerseys
flooded in at 9 AM to check in for the event and set up tents. Before we
knew it, the opening ceremonies commenced, with the congratulating of
the team $lumdog Millionaires for raising the most money while the teams
accompanied by cancer survivors walking a lap around the school. The
rest of the morning offered up a variety of choices: playing a rousing
game of water pong or snakes in ladders, going on a bounce in the bouncy
castle or simply enjoying the outdoors. I took this time to play a nail
biting game of snakes and ladders.

Time flew by fast, and soon we were participating in the lunch and
afternoon activities: tug of war, face painting, and dodgeball, to name
a few. One of the highlights of the events was the tug of war. It was
the first time I had ever participated and it was a cool experience. I
also really enjoyed the food provided throughout the day. They not only
gave us lunch and breakfast, but snacks too, with samosas and donuts
being handed out later. The day ended with the closing ceremony in the
gymnasium. When we entered, we were met with all the luminaries we had
made earlier displayed in the word ‘love.’ This was paired with an
amazing performance by the Martingrove String Orchestra.

The whole visual really drove home what **Relay** is really about. It
isn’t about the amazing food or dodgeball, it's about finding a cure for
cancer. Cancer has touched not only everyone attending, but probably
everyone in the world. After the celebrations are over and the
decorations are cleared up, we should remember what’s truly important.
That is supporting people who have cancer and cancer survivors, along
with researching for a cure. As a school we ensure **Relay** has an
impact. This year we raised over $14,000. This money will be used to
fund cancer research and to provide a national support system for cancer
patients. At the end of the event it was clear that Martingrove as a
school is bigger than cancer.

Image taken by [*Sanaa Mahmud*](https://mcibeacon.com/member/sanaa-mahmud)