---
author: awong
image: assets/images/2022-02-15-The-Calming-Utopia-of-Star-Trek-The-Next-Generation.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "The Calming Utopia of Star Trek: The Next Generation"
---

I don’t know if this is a “hot take” or not, but I strongly dislike
dystopian media. Don’t get me wrong, Orwell’s novel *1984* is a
masterpiece and the *Hunger Games* is popular for a reason. However,
despite many valiant attempts to embrace the genre, I have never been
able to gain an appreciation for it. Personally, I find most dystopian
media far too cynical and demoralizing to read or watch. It always seems
to center around a) two teenager’s sucking face in a world where they
are divided based on which basic stereotype they fit into, and b) random
objects like pencils are illegal for some reason. My feud with dystopia
has now reached a boiling point. The extreme amount of negativity is
getting exhausting and during a pandemic the idea of dystopia is
currently getting a bit too close for comfort. When times get tough, I
want to flock to the hopeful naive optimistic shores of Utopia, and more
specifically *Star Trek: The Next Generation* (*TNG*).

*TNG* is set in the 24th century, and follows the alien and human crew
of the *U.S.S.* *Enterprise*. Led by Captain Picard, the crew embarks on
adventures and misadventures while exploring the final frontier of
space. The *TNG* world feels real, minus the amazing retro futuristic
70s fashion (I mean just look at Wesley Crusher’s sweaters). The
universe of Star Trek is like a warm cup of chocolate after a hard day;
comforting and familiar. It makes a point to illustrate a relatable
world and show humanity at its finest. The characters still have petty
conflicts and aren't paragons of virtue, but like us, they improve and
keep improving.

Although almost every episode has photon torpedoes ready to be released,
there is a focus on diplomacy and finding non-violent ways to end
conflict. *TNG* approaches most issues with maturity and a bit of humor,
especially when dealing with Q (Star Trek's version of a Trickster God)
. A great example of this is the Season 3 episode, “the Enemy”, where Lt
Cmdr. Geordi La Forge is trapped on a deadly planet with a Romulan
officer. Although the governments represented by these characters have
been in conflict for years, Geordi and the officer are forced to find a
way to work together to survive. As the crew boldly goes where no one
has gone before, they remind us that, despite all odds, we survive. We
evolve and we have the potential to change our future. I think right now
that is the message we need. The world needs less Katnisses and more
Captain Picards.


Image taken by [*Aidan Schreder*](https://mcibeacon.com/member/aidan-schreder)
