---
author: mseth
image: assets/images/jireh_photo.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "In Loving Memory of Jireh Leal"
---

As many of you may know, earlier this semester, we learned of the tragic
news of Jireh Manosca Leal’s passing on October 12, 2022. This made and
still continues to make a big impact on all who knew her. Jireh was a
kind, caring, and generous sister, daughter, and friend. She was known
to create a friendly environment and have a positive influence on those
around her. Jireh was always supportive of anyone, no matter who they
were, even if she did not know them. She was also an amazing leader at
church. It would not matter where she was or who she was with, she would
always show friendliness and was always approachable. She was always
admired for her initiative, co-operation, and perseverance in any
situation. At Martingrove Collegiate Institute, she had become close
with many. Jireh’s teachers and friends have shared many fond memories
of her. Here is what they had to say:

“It’s been a privilege to teach two members of the Leal family. I
thought very highly of the bond between Jai and Judah, and having them
both in the same class this year gave me a front seat to a loving,
incredulous, safeguarded relationship only siblings can have. She showed
heart in both her care for her musical craft, and the connections she
cultivated with those around her, and I count myself so blessed to be in
those numbers.” - Ms. J. Chang

“I will always remember Jireh as a bright and kind student with a
beautiful smile. I was so proud of her as a blue camper up at Manitou
last month— her incredible energy, support, and honesty strengthened the
bonds and sense of community that they built up at camp. She will be
missed.” - Ms. S. Lima

“Jireh was a lot of good things, but most of all, a wonderful friend. I
truly couldn’t have asked for anything more from her as a friend, and
I’m grateful beyond belief for her being there for me.” - Rudi Mataj

“Jireh was an amazing person. She lit up my day with just her cheerful
smile, how we greet each other in the morning. She was also my sports
buddy. She was so talented in every sport, especially volleyball. It was
such an honor being close to her. Thanks Jai.” - Vivian Do

“Jai could do anything! Like singing, dancing, playing instruments,
making stuff, arts, sports, she was an absolute golden child at
everything she did. While she did tend to lose sleep for it, I’ve always
been proud of how talented she is and she’s definitely been a person
I’ve looked up to because she’s so all rounded.” - Kavinaya
Vijayatharsan

“I loved your laugh and your funny jokes. I loved how you didn’t care
about what other people thought. I loved how caring and loving you were
towards me. We believed we were platonic soulmates. Maybe that’s why her
death hurts so much” - Anisa Krasniqi

Jireh’s death has impacted us very much and it would be very helpful in
the difficult times to support those who were close to her as well as
look to receive support.

Talking to friends and family can make the mourning easier. For parents,
being there for your children by sitting down, listening, acknowledging,
as well as communicating can be very helpful in the grieving process.
Check up on them every once in a while to see how they are dealing with
the situation and make sure to let them know that you are always there
to support them. If you’re unable to talk to peers or parents/guardians,
talking to a counselor or therapist can be helpful too. School
counselors will always be there at school to help you get through the
situation.

She will be remembered and loved for the influence she had on everyone.

October 11, 2007- October 12, 2022.

May she rest in peace.
