---
author: sxiang
layout: post
tags: []
title: "GIVE US OUR 4%"
---


As a grade eleven pre-AP student, I am currently facing a dilemma that 
is familiar to most of MCI’s AP student body.

Should I take AP courses next year?

This seems like such a straightforward question— the gifted and AP
programs are the only reason I chose to go to MCI—but in the wake of the
removal of the AP mark boost, I can’t help but examine my future with a
hint of cynicism.

I intend to study planning or civil engineering at university— an
aspiring woman in STEM, if you will— which means the admission averages
for my dream programs are sky-high. During the 2022 admissions cycle at
the University of Waterloo’s civil engineering program, applicants had a
62% chance of an offer if they had an average of 90-94, but as soon as
their average was above 95, their chance of admission skyrocketed to
90%.

Thus, we are provided with a canvas upon which injustice paints itself.
Students taking U-level courses and students taking AP courses are
covering the same curriculum, except the latter are also responsible for
learning advanced materials equivalent to a first year university
course. Ergo, it only makes sense for students taking U-level classes to
have higher grades, which is why the AP mark boost was implemented in
the first place— so the grades of AP students would reflect the time and
effort required to keep up with the program. However, with the removal
of the mark boost, students from both streams are now competing against
each other for the same opportunities, even though their grades cannot
and should not be compared to each other because they are inherently
different.

Grade twelve student **Fiona Verzivolli** writes:

> *The programs I want to go* \[into\] *all have an admission average in
> the high 90s, and if a university-level student with a 97 in math can
> get in and an advanced placement student with a 95 doesn't meet the
> cut-off, I view that as fundamentally unjust since AP is more work.*

U-level grades are more likely to be higher than unboosted AP grades due
to the disparity in the course work’s complexity and the speed at which
the lessons are delivered. Therefore, I am presented with an internal
moral predicament: Do I switch to U-level courses for higher marks and a
better chance at getting into the university I’ve dreamed of since I was
six years old? Or do I stay in the AP program for more enrichment and to
be better prepared for first-year university?

Grade eleven student **Adam Chan** writes:

> \[It’s\] *great if I learn more, but* \[what’s\] *the point* \[of\]
> *having that extra knowledge if I can't use it due to the fact that I
> didn't get into the uni program I want to go into because my grades
> weren't high enough?*

Quite a dilemma.

The mark boost was a significant incentive for students applying to the
AP program, but without it, the cons of the program outweigh the pros.
Another major incentive to the program is the ability to learn more, but
at this point, students are essentially being penalized for their choice
to do so, so why should we bother? Without the mark boost, students are
giving themselves a more challenging time in school, likely with lower
grades.

Grade eleven student **Ayush Sehijpal** writes:

> *We had the 4% to look forward to, but without that, there's no point
> in taking AP courses.* \[AP\] *only*... \[increases\] *stress on
> students, and* \[deters them\] *from taking such courses.*

I believe that this hesitation and quandary over our futures will lower
AP enrolment drastically. If we aren’t guaranteed the future we want by
working hard, is it really so absurd that we choose the conventional
route? Go ahead, call me out on my all-or-nothing mentality, or say that
I’m being melodramatic, but my point still stands— please give us back
our 4%.

Sincerely,

The AP students of Martingrove
