---
author: mhutton
image: assets/images/Bears_Corner-_credit_goes_to_Bears_Athletic_Council_BAC.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Bears Corner"
---

The Never-ending saga of MCI’s volleyball season; scandals, teams 
composed of grown-up men and insider scoops

Does volleyball season ever end? That’s the question many MCI students
are asking themselves right now. The boys' volleyball season has just
ended and it’s time for the girls' season to start. So once again,
students are hearing announcements about volleyball over the P.A. On top
of that, the volleyball intramurals are gearing up.

To recap the boys' volleyball season, the senior boys made it all the
way to the West Region semi-finals, eventually losing to Silverthorn,
who became the champions. Some students described the Silverthorn team
as, “a team of full-grown men,.” considering the larger build of their
players. The junior boys also had a successful season, booking their
ticket to the West Region semi-finals with a triumph against
Silverthorn.

On the fun side of volleyball, here’s some inside information on which
teams to watch in the intramural season. The “Papa Pavle”, otherwise
known as the “University of Wisconsin” entry, is fielding an extremely
strong roster and may make it to the top tier if they end up competing
at all (more on that later). The “Twirly Burlies 2” could make a strong
run for it, with a star-studded roster including one of the best grade
10 athletes. Lastly, the “Tier One Dustbuckets” may be good contenders
after their acquisition of a star libero and setter.

Could the Papa Pavle team be disqualified due to a ‘cheating’ scandal?
Apparently, an unnamed member of the team forged signatures for each of
the players, using the same pen and style of writing— making it
painfully obvious that the signatures were forged. If so, that was a
seriously rookie mistake.

We hope to see you at the games cheering on your school. Go MCI!
