---
author: awong
image: assets/images/2022-02-15-A_Valentine_to_Romantic_Comedies_A_Love_Story_in_6_Acts.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "A Valentine to Romantic Comedies: A Love Story in 6 Acts"
---

It's hard to tell when mankind first met the romantic comedy or as the
kids these days like to call them “rom-coms”. From William Shakespeare”s
The Taming of the Shrew to 1924 with the release of “Sherlock Jr. and
“Girl Shy, audiences have proven that they have a lust for love. At this
point more people have seen “Wedding Crashers” than have actually
crashed a wedding (which is a shame, I mean what about that free food?)

Over the years the rom-com genre has morphed itself to fit the needs and
desires of the era. In the 1940’s, looking for an escape from the dreary
war-time conditions, studios released screwball comedies like “His Girl
Friday”. 1950’s filmmakers frustrated by the morally-conservative Hayes
Code produced innuendo-laden comedies like “The Seven Year Itch”
(basically anything starring Marilyn Monroe). The 1970’s brought “Harold
and Maude” and other transgressive films which showed relationships that
were more introspective. In the “unsupervised age” of the 1980’s when
more teenagers started going to movies, rom-coms shifted to be more
youth-focused with films like “Pretty in Pink”. The 1990s - 2000s is my
personal favorite era of rom-coms producing many classics like “10
things I Hate About You”. Sadly in the early 2010s, rom-coms faced a
downturn. While there was the occasional studio-backed hit like “La La
Land” they were few and far between. Today the rom-com genre is
recovering and finding new homes in independent film.

The Meet Cute

I'm personally a huge fan of rom-coms, However, my personal relationship
with rom coms started out rocky to say the least. They didn’t exactly
“Have me at Hello”(Jerry Maguire) Despite my current 5 year rom-com
obsession. I originally believed that they were formulaic and horribly
vapid. It took one very special movie; Scott Pilgrim Vs. the World for
me to begin to fall in love with the genre. Scott Pilgrim Vs. the World
is the perfect gateway rom-com. It is a rom-com disguised as a
Manga-inspired action movie that is filmed and set in Toronto.

Falling in Love Montage

After Scott Pilgrim, I decided to see if Scott Pilgrim was the
“exception and not the rule” (“He’s Just Not That Into You”). As I
continued on galavanting though rom-com land I slowly stopped watching
these movies ironically. What I truly admire about these movies is that
they are truly and honestly themselves and they don’t masquerade as more
dramatic or serious movies. They know they are guilty pleasures and they
serve that purpose excellently. Out of this category I found a mountain
of movies that I have watched more times than I care to admit. One
recommendation I have is “27 Dresses” in which Jane” always the
bridesmaid but never the bride” has the difficult task of being the maid
of honor for her sister who is marrying the man of her dreams.

Big Dramatic Fight

While galavanting through rom-com land I became acutely aware that a lot
of the movies that I really liked had terrible critic scores. A constant
criticism of rom-coms is that despite having women as their target
audience, they perpetuate sexist regressive tropes. There are many
examples of this from women not being able to maintain positive
friendships with each other to women having to “fix men” and being put
into essentially abusive relationships. The most prevalent and worrying
concern is that people will get a tainted corrupted view of romance
though rom-coms. In rom coms, there are many many amoral tropes passed
off as “romantic”. For example, stalking someone or interrupting a
wedding with a proclamation of love. In rom coms these actions are
rewarded with romance and affirmations. However, if you were to attempt
this in the real world with someone you were romantically interested in
your actions would instead be met with horror and probably a restraining
order.

Redemptive Arc

While I acknowledge these concerns, I feel if you judge every genre by
its worst movies you won't be able to watch anything. I would argue that
most rom-coms are inherently femmist. As the Canadian Screen Award
winning web series People Watching states “the first rule of feminism
club is that there is no singular definition”. Rom coms have not only
been pioneered by women like Nancy Meyers and Nora Efron but the genre
has been inherently feminist from its conception. A great example of
this is Pride and Prejudice’s Elizabeth Bennet denying Mr.Darcy's first
proposal because despite his status and her family's pressure for her to
marry, he disrespects her and her family.

The argument that people who watch rom coms will make them their “road
maps” on their way to romance doesn’t make sense as it doubts the
intelligence of viewers and their ability to tell the difference between
fantasy and reality. Rom-coms like the characters within them are
capable of positive development. In fact they're extremely
self-critical. The genre is filled with deconstructions of harmful
tropes to remind the genre and its creators of present issues and remind
them to fix themselves. A particularly great example of rom-com
challenging the genre is the CW series Crazy Ex-Girlfriend. In this
show, the main character Rebecca Bunch works as a high-paid lawyer in
New York and is completely miserable. Inspired by a chance meeting with
her first boyfriend Josh Chan she moves to West Covina California to
follow him. The show from that description sounds like every career
woman finds love and second chances in a small town Hallmark movie.
However crazy-ex takes a look back at these tropes and applies real work
logic and consequences to them (albeit in a setting where characters
will occasionally burst into song). What comes after is a heartfelt look
at mental illness and the journey to self love.

Running to the Airport/Sailing away in a Boat

Honestly, I am personally conflicted with the term “guilty pleasure”
because I feel that people should be proud of what they watch no matter
what other people think. You should be proud of watching movies no
matter if it's a spoof movie from the 2000s, a Zombie B movie (I don't
know why zombies get so much hate) or even dare I say it Adam Sandler
comedies. To me, romantic comedies are perfectly represented by the
“running to the airport scenes” that end many of these films. The big
speeches are always kind of embarrassing and would never work in real
life but, they also are endearing and hilarious.

Image taken by [*Mira Seth*](https://mcibeacon.com/member/mira-seth)
