---
author: nperlman
image: assets/images/Horror-Video-Games-and-Films-Halloween-Edition.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Horror Video Games and Films - Halloween Edition"
---

Are you a gamer or a movie enthusiast who is stuck on what to do for
Halloween? There are many options to choose from when it comes to
enjoying what Halloween has to offer.

Before I tried my first horror game, *Resident Evil*, I was worried
about the jitters I would feel after playing the game, but it turned out
to be not too bad. Recently, I played *Resident Evil 8*, which had
better graphics and camera angles. It has survival and mystery elements
similar to those found in horror movies. With its mutants and
cut-scenes, it had the feel of a horror movie. In the end, I did enjoy
the experience of playing the game. Aside from video games, if you
really like that Halloween adrenaline rush and want to enjoy a freaky
film to enjoy with your friends and family, I recommend
*Jeepers,Creepers* or *Poltergeist*. Both play on your emotions and
provide a scare element.

Some horror movies leave a long-lasting effect, even years after you’ve
watched them. Scary or bone-chilling horror movies are not for everyone.
If you don’t want horror or at least scary, I can recommend either
*Scream*, *WWZ*, or even *Scream*'s parody, *Scary Movie*, which was
really great. If you want to consider a musical, try *The Rocky Horror
Picture Show*. It is a timeless classic, although it's not really a
horror movie. In the end, no matter what you do this Halloween, have a
great time with it.
