---
author: smahmud
image: assets/images/2022-02-15-Tearing-Down-Booster-Myths-In-Time-for-Your-18th-Birthday.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Tearing Down Booster Myths In-Time for Your 18th Birthday"
---

Nowadays, rumours and word-of-mouth are primary ways of getting
information. While sometimes this can be beneficial in spreading
important details, in our current world, where news is heavily based
around science and medicine, second-hand information tends to be
inaccurate. These instances of misinformation can be hard to spot, as
countless news outlets and media professionals spread false facts like
wildfire, taking advantage of the fact that many people will believe
what they hear. As we move further into 2022, this will have an even
larger impact on the actions taken in regards to individual health.

This year, many of MCI’s senior students will hit the big milestone of
turning 18. This new-found adulthood comes with many perks: being able
to sign yourself out of school, get a credit card, and, according to the
province of Ontario, get a booster shot. While this is so exciting, it’s
important to remember that, as we’ve established, there are many
discrepancies between the information spread about the COVID-19 vaccines
and what is actually true. I want to break down some common myths and
falsehoods about the vaccine booster shot. Whether you are eligible for
the booster or not, everyone should have all the facts to help them make
an informed decision about their own health and well-being.

**MYTH:** Pfizer is the better vaccine compared to Moderna.

**TRUTH:** In Canada, two different vaccines are approved as booster
shots: Pfizer and Moderna. Many people have the belief that Moderna is
the lesser vaccine compared to Pfizer, with adults turning down the
Moderna shot. According to a study published in the Journal of the
American Medical Association (JAMA), Moderna’s vaccine actually provides
slightly better protection compared to Pfizer. With the Delta variant,
adults who received two doses of Moderna had a lower risk of
hospitalization than those who received two doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech
vaccine. While Pfizer is the only approved vaccine booster for Ontarians
ages 18-29, it is worth noting that for adults ages 30-70, Moderna is
quite possibly the best choice to help combat COVID-19 at this time.

**MYTH:** Mixing different vaccines is dangerous and it’s better to
stick with just one.

**TRUTH:** In July 2021, the World Health Organization (WHO) warned
against mixing vaccines, making it seem as if this was a big no-no going
forward. Yet as new advancements are made every day, it has been shown
that mixing vaccines is perfectly safe. The provinces of Quebec,
Ontario, and British Columbia have all confirmed the benefits of getting
differing vaccines. In January of this year, Dr. Brian Conway of the
Vancouver Infectious Disease Centre stated that mixing Pfizer and
Moderna vaccines “show the immune system the virus in two slightly
different ways that may lead to a better, stronger, and longer term
protection against the virus.” He urges people not to “vaccine shop”,
and instead, focus on booking a booster appointment as soon as you
become eligible.

**MYTH:** Everyone is expected to get Omicron anyways, so there’s no
point in getting boosted.

**TRUTH:** If you have already received two doses, you may believe that
this is enough to protect yourself from COVID-19. You also might think
that, since it is predicted that the majority of people will get the
Omicron variant, it is pointless to aim to protect yourself at all by
getting boosted. Unfortunately, none of these statements are true.
Studies show that a person’s protection against COVID-19 reduces over
time - explained through the term “waning immunity”. The risk of
fully-vaccinated people (those with two doses) getting COVID-19, and
especially the Omicron variant, increases as time goes on. The levels of
one’s antibodies get lower after 3-9 months, meaning that the longer one
goes unprotected, it is harder for the body to fight off infections or
viruses. Boosters replenish your antibodies, bringing them back to
higher levels and reducing the risk of getting the virus. Generally, our
body’s immune system is much more effective with more triggers, and can
continue to fight off viruses if we give it the tools to do so.

It’s easy to believe things that are frequently and convincingly stated
in public or in the media. Being misinformed can be scary, as you don’t
have control over the choices you make when it comes to protecting
yourself. With some of the largest booster myths debunked, hopefully you
can use your knowledge to educate yourself and others, and feel more
confident in your decisions to protect yourself against COVID-19.


Image taken by [*Mira Seth*](https://mcibeacon.com/member/mira-seth)