---
author: npark
image: assets/images/film_review_Spirited-_Fardowsa_Mohamed.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Worth a Watch? Ryan Reynolds and Will Ferrel hit centre stage in
musical comedy ‘Spirited’"
---


Have you hit double digits on *Home Alone* reruns? Do you know the *Elf*
script better than the back of your hand? Even though many Christmas
movie classics have lost the vibrant aura they once had, *Spirited*’s
modern, musical twist on Charles Dickens’ “A Christmas Carol” offers a
flamboyant film that will get your foot tapping. This big and boisterous
musical comedy offers an exciting holiday movie option worth checking
out for its punchlines and emotional quality.

It's the first time “A Christmas Carol” is told from the perspective of
the ghosts of Christmas, and this interpretation stars Will Ferrel as
the protagonist: the Ghost of Christmas Present, addressed as Present.
Present stumbles upon Clint Briggs, played by Ryan Reynolds, an oily
businessman who specializes in crafting controversy. Present identifies
Clint as the perfect candidate for the ghosts’ next “perp”. Each year’s
“perp”, a Scrooge-like individual to be haunted every Christmas, is
offered a shot at redemption.

While the film has a playful overlying tone and a Broadway feel, the
abundance of times characters burst into song took away from the
storyline during the first third. Additionally, the plot is messy at
times and confusing. Yet Ferrel and Reynolds have stellar chemistry, and
the emotions *Spirited* spills out are one of its best traits. Reynolds
embodies Clint's smart-aleck personality like we’ve seen before in
*Deadpool*. *Spirited* may not be an instant Christmas classic, but it's
more than a soon-to-be-forgotten streaming stocking stuffer. It’s well
worth a watch to pass your time this winter break, and it can be found
on Apple TV+ rated PG-13.

Movie Rating: ★★★☆☆ 3.5 stars
