---
author: msemple
image: assets/images/holiday_shopping_and_consumerism-_Fardowsa_Mohamed.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "The Perfect Gift"
---


Love it or hate it, the holiday season has begun. The malls are all 
decked in vibrant red and lush green, winter break is practically a day 
away, and the daily Coldplay on the announcements sounds more festive 
than usual.

Many of us at MCI still undoubtedly have someone left on our shopping
list - whether it’s your Secret Santa from first period or your best
friend. So, what’s a last-minute shopper to do?

**The internet is your friend.** But really, when has it not been? If
you have Amazon Prime, you can get gifts delivered to your doorstep
practically in under twenty-four hours! For those in a time crunch,
Amazon has plenty of gift lists to help you figure out the perfect thing
to buy. The option of wrapping an item and having it shipped to you is
also an option, perfect for those of us who find ourselves getting into
combat with scotch tape.

**Price doesn’t mean perfection.** This may bring images of cotton ball
Santa artwork from kindergarten flooding back into your mind, but
gift-giving doesn’t require breaking the bank to bring happiness to
those you love. This year, a friend and I are annotating novels that we
bought at a garage sale and plan on swapping them on Christmas. Another
friend of mine bakes amazing cookies and gives them to her relatives and
friends as a present.

**If all else fails, gift card.** Even though they’re thought of as a
last-minute gift, they have one saving quality– they let the person buy
something they actually want. You also eliminate the risk of getting a
sweater that doesn’t fit them or their style.
