---
author: rpannu
image: assets/images/relay_for_life_event.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Relay For Life: Messages Of Hope"
---

MCI’s Relay for Life team made significant progress on Thursday, October
20th this year with the “Messages of Hope” breast cancer awareness
poster-signing in Martingrove’s foyer. October is breast cancer
awareness month, and our Relay for Life club took the initiative to
create an event at lunch where students could sign a large poster and
write positive messages. There were two posters, which will be hung up
at the front and back entrances of the school, for everyone to see.
During this event, gold ribbons with pins were given out to each student
who wrote something on one of these posters so they could represent the
Relay for Life club. MCI’s Relay for Life team had pink markers and
chalk for students to use to sign the posters, since pink is the colour
that represents breast cancer awareness. Anyone who walked by the table
was encouraged to write a message, and the posters looked amazing by the
end of lunch. The students and staff members talked about how this event
brought the community together, and students with relatives affected by
cancer spoke about how this event was uplifting for them. Mrudul Anagal,
a relay for life member, said, “This event really brings people together
for a cause that affects so many around the world, and being a part of
Relay for Life is great because it lets you see the school come
together.” Max Hutton, a student who attended the poster-signing, said,
“I find this event really important for those affected by cancer. I have
a family member struggling with leukemia and I’m sure they would be
thrilled to see this event happening.” Relay for Life will also have its
main event in May, so everyone should look forward to raising money for
cancer awareness soon.

Rababb Pannu
