---
author: amarchetti
image: assets/images/high_school_movies_most_similar_to_MCI-_Lukas_Cousins.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "MCI - The High School Movie Experience"
---


I’m not sure about you, but high school has been an absolute breeze 
these past two years. I mean, the stressing over deadlines, staying up 
until dawn to study, and the exhausting socializing hasn’t worn me out 
at all. If you are looking for a good example of high school life that 
may not differ just a little from our reality, check out these five 
films.

**1. Mean Girls**

Almost everyone has seen the iconic Lindsay Lohan & Rachel McAdams
classic. We all know girls can be powerful masterminds with zero
remorse. Except I can’t recall the last time I’ve seen someone get
pushed in front of a bus. It must’ve happened that time I was home sick.

**2. High School Musical**

Ah yes, the movie I was convinced would be my own high school experience
in a nutshell when I was age nine. If you weren’t watching this movie
and fantasizing about high school being exactly the same, then what were
you doing?

**3. Camp Rock**

Those who went to the leadership camp understand everything this movie
was about. The camp colours were battling it out trying to beat each
other to become the ultimate camp-rocker with musical wisdom and
knowledge. Not so far off from the actual movie.

**4. 10 Things I Hate About You**

This movie hits all the marks for a teenager's high school encounter:
cliché high school parties, a messy relationship, and a girl boss moment
where you use an emotional poem to get back at the guy who broke your
heart. I’m not sure about the guy pretending to date me for cold hard
cash though.

**5. Carrie**

There are honestly so many similarities between this movie and real life
high school. I see girls walking around the hallway, drenched in blood,
wearing a prom dress all the time. Okay, so maybe this one is a bit of a
stretch, but imagine if it actually happened.
