---
author: ylhamo
image: assets/images/remembrance_day.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Why We Remember"
---

The elementary school teacher stood up abruptly from her chair causing a
screech that drove the children to clamp their hands on their ears. Many
gazed at the russet leaves slowly falling from the almost-naked trees
outside the window. On November 11th, it seemed almost impossible for
them to sit their "bums down on the carpet”.

"It's not fair!" yelled one of the obnoxious kids from the back, who had
not been listening to the teacher’s voice echo the poem “Flanders
Fields.” As children nodded their heads in agreement, in hopes of
receiving the 15-minute break that was postponed, the teacher felt a
drop of sweat trickle down her forehead as she gazed at the scene of the
classroom. The confidence they had in interrupting a lesson about
Remembrance Day to complain about their first-world problems made the
teacher understand why we remember.

July 28, 1914. World War I caused everyone physically present in 1914 to
be wounded in some way, either mentally or physically. People of all
social groups, races, and ages were impacted by this warfare. Those who
survived the combat experienced life-long psychological torment, while
the soldiers who died had their last glimpse of the world as gauzy
clouds of smoke.

Whilst soldiers in 1914 slept in their tents, reciting childhood prayers
in hopes of being able to live one more night, today's children have the
luxury of being able to sleep without the fear of tonight being their
last. Without remembering their struggles, the fight for freedom in 1914
would be forgotten, just like the teacher who realized that colouring
poppies would not teach these children why we remember.
