---
author: sxiang
image: assets/images/2022-06-22-Grad-Spotlight.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Grad Spotlight"
---

Congratulations, MCI Class of 2022! You did it!

To quote the classic 2007 film, *Bee Movie*, “Boy, quite a bit of pomp,
under the circumstances!”

To celebrate the success of MCI’s graduating class, I have compiled the
accomplishments of a few graduates.

**Caroline Miszkiel**

Caroline has accomplished many great things at MCI. Some of Caroline’s
achievements include: winning the HOSA Medical Innovation competition at
the fall conference, winning a hovercraft competition, qualifying for
the city championship for breaststroke in Grade ten, and being captain
of the senior girls relay swim team as a junior student. Caroline has
also been incredibly involved in MCI’s music program such as being the
co-president of the music council and being Concertmaster of MCI’s
String Orchestra. She has also played the violin in several music
ensembles, such as Chamber Strings and Senior Strings (when she was
still a junior!).

Caroline will be studying biomedical engineering at the University of
Waterloo. Congratulations, Caroline!

**Paul Kim**

Paul has been an integral part of the MCI community. His proudest
accomplishment is being a fourth-year member of the Etobicoke
Philharmonic Orchestra. Paul has also been crucial to the music
community at MCI, playing in many ensembles. Music ensembles that Paul
has been a part of include: Junior String Orchestra and Chamber Strings
in Grade nine; Junior String Orchestra, Senior String Orchestra, and
Chamber Strings in Grade ten; and String Orchestra in Grade twelve.
Additionally, Paul was a part of the BLT at this year’s Grade ten
Leadership Camp up at Manitou, helping to make it an unforgettable
experience.

Paul will be studying Health Sciences at Western University.
Congratulations, Paul!

Paul and Caroline’s achievements are representative of MCI’s extremely
accomplished graduating class. On behalf of the Beacon, congratulations,
Class of 2022! You will do great things. Or, maybe you will do regular
things. Either way, you’ll be able to spend your days in a building with
windows, and that’s a magnificent feat in itself.

Image source:

[*https://nrf.com/topics/holiday-and-seasonal-trends/graduation*](https://nrf.com/topics/holiday-and-seasonal-trends/graduation)
