---
author: awong
image: assets/images/2023-04-01-THE PHAROS DAILY.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "🥓 THE PHAROS DAILY"
---

Thursday, Martius XXXI, XLIV BC

> Et tu Murphy?: Is Ryan Murphy's “Caesar” Bioplay Too Soon

Why create a new story when you could tell a “true” one? Or at least one
based, albeit very loosely, on a real person's life. The recently
released play “Caesar” ponders this very question. Admittedly, Caesar
has been criticized for being “a bit too soon”, as it has only been XVI
days since this year’s Ides of March, the infamous day when Caesar was
stabbed XXIII times by members of the Roman Senate. However, it has been
released just in time for award season and it's no secret that the
Academy loves bioplays. After all, one-third of nominations and awards
won by famous Roman actor Meryrlous Streepous have come from historical
plays.

“Caesar” has also been under a fair amount of scrutiny for its portrayal
of its title character. News outlets like *The Roman Times*, have
criticized the bioplay for glossing over Caesar’s controversies, such as
his reputation as a tyrant, as well as his betrayal of former
triumvirate member Pompey, which resulted in the civil war that
followed. The biopic also has been criticized for intentionally trying
to sweep Caesar's extramarital affair with Cleopatra, the current leader
of Egypt, under the rug.

Members of Caesar's family have also spoken out about the release of
this play. His wife, Calpernia, released the following statement; “It
was against Julius' wishes for plays to be made about him after his
death, he was a very private man.” She went on to state that Caesar
disliked intrusive news outlets and paparazzi, citing the Bona Dea
scandal where The Inquirer exposed Caesar’s ex-wife, Pompeia’s, alleged
affair with politician, Publius Clodius Pulcher.

The writer and director of this play, Ryan Murphy, released a statement
claiming “we \[the studio\] tried to get in touch with Caesar’s family,
via stone tablet, II days after his passing but for whatever odd reason
they didn’t reply.” Murphy also mentions the great respect he and his
team had for Caesar’s final wishes, mentioning that they “only went
through his private quarters III times and only took three-fourths of
his personal belongings for research.” How cordial of them. Murphy and
his team eventually got in contact with Caesar's nephew, Marcus Junius
Brutus and his colleague, Gaius Cassius Longinus, both of whom became
producers for the play.

In the play, there is a compelling side plot following fictionalized
versions of Brutus and Cassius trying to stop Caesar from being
assassinated. Strangely, in one of Caesar last conversations with his
close friend and confidant, Mark Antony, as outlined in Antony's
recently released biography “Arms Without Head”, Caesar allegedly told
Antony, “If I die, I’m almost 100% sure Cassius is involved and maybe
Brutus. But like I totally don’t trust Cassius, that guy is really
sketchy.”

Separated from it’s controversies, “Caesar” is a subpar play, making no
new or creative observations about its title figure. It clings to the
formulaic emotionally manipulative structure of bioplays, with Caesar’s
characteer catapulting from a nobody with the falling sickness to
accomplishing incredible feats, rising above various challenges, giving
an inspirational speech and then passing away dramatically. In regards
to the staging and blocking of the play, “Caesar” makes confusing
decisions making the rhythm of some scenes seem awkward and forced.

One of the few highlights of “Caesar'' is the performance by up-and
coming actor, Austinus Butlarus, or as he is commonly known as Austin
Butler, who credits his impressive performance to the technique of
“method acting” which helped him get into Caesar’s mindset.

In a recent interview, Butlarus admitted that stepping into the shoes of
the former Roman emperor has cost him more than he anticipated. Butlarus
believes that taking on the role has had long term effects on him,
stating that “I \[Butlarus\] feel like the ghost of Caesar is with me,
you know? I still feel like I could come down with the falling sickness
anytime.” Butlarus’ fear may not be entirely out of the realm of
possibility, as he is no stranger to roles that became a bit too
life-like. The previous year, Butlarus was casted to play the role of
mythical Greek musician, Orpheus. The role irreversibly damaged his
voice, giving him a Thracian accent, resulting in extreme emotional
turmoil for Butlarus, so much so that at every award show last year, he
was often spotted uncontrollably crying over his “lost love”. Strangely
enough, both his damaged voice and emotional turmoil ceased once last
year's award season was over, giving Butlarus hope that if he does
develop the falling sickness during awards season, it will clear itself
up one the season ends.

The release of Murphy’s bioplay, “Caesar”, has become a topic of
controversy. Many, including myself, found Murphy’s decision to release
the bioplay so close to Caesar’s death to be a vile, unethical ploy to
profit off of the death of a man whose last wishes were disrespected.
Despite “Caesar” being of questionable quality, I fully expect that the
play will clean-up during the upcoming awards season. Critics rating: 9
stabs out of 23.

*This article is part of "The Bacon" - The Beacon's April Fools' edition. We hope you enjoyed!*