---
author: nadtelesford
image: assets/images/2023-02-15-Books_To_Get_You_Into_Reading_for_2023.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Books To Get You Into Reading for 2023!"
---

The new year is the perfect time to create goals you have no plan to
complete, but reading more doesn’t have to be one of them. This is why I
have curated a list of books that should have something everyone will
enjoy.

**A memoir that is both entertaining, insightful, and funny:**

*You Can’t Be Serious* by Kal Penn, recounts his experience of being a
man of colour in the entertainment industry. While keeping the tone of
the book mostly lighthearted, Kal looks at both his career's most
satisfying moments– such as how he worked for President Obama’s
administration– and the challenges he faced along the way.

**A good dystopian novel that isn’t *The Hunger Games*:**

*Legend* by Marie Lu is a fast paced story with twists you could never
anticipate. Set in a dystopian North America that has been split up into
the Republic and the Colonies, the story follows the point of view of
two teenagers; June, one of the Republics’ wealthiest members, and Day,
the Republics’ most wanted criminal. The differences in their social
standing give them no reason to interact, until June's brother is
murdered, and Day is the prime suspect. With amazing story telling and
an intriguing plot, Lu will keep you captivated long after you finish
reading the first installment in the trilogy.

**A fantasy that actually makes sense in the first 100 pages:**

Leigh Bardugo's clear and compelling storytelling makes *Shadow and
Bone* a fantastic novel to start reading fantasy. In this plot driven
story we follow Alina Starkov in a world that easily sticks out because
of the personifications of light and darkness, as well as the
unmistakably unique magic system. We join Alina as she picks up new
skills and learns more about herself and her powers. This helps us
comprehend her growth throughout the book and how it happens. A Netflix
show adaptation has also been created that includes content from the
author’s other book to even further engage us in this creative world.

**A book unlike anything you have probably ever read before:**

When you’re in the jungle and a little girl appears seemingly out of
nowhere, repeatedly telling you she likes your face, she may just plan
to steal it. In *Beasts of Prey* by Ayana Gray, we are taken by surprise
by many things including the scenario I just mentioned. We follow
alongside sixteen-year-old Koffi and seventeen-year-old Ekon, who are
both after a beast that has plagued the city of Lkossa for nearly a
decade. Unable to hunt it alone, they join together in this African
mythology inspired fantasy. The journey takes them places they never
could have anticipated and forces them to confront things they’d rather
keep hidden.

With us all being settled one month into the new year, what is a better
new hobby to pick up on other than reading? In all of these books there
is so much more to unpack, so I strongly urge you to read them!
