---
author: jwu
image: assets/images/2023-04-01-Easter Preparations MCI Teachers Edition.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "🥓 Easter Preparations: MCI Teachers Edition"
---

Bears, have you ever wondered what your favorite teacher does during
Easter? Ponder not a millisecond longer as we’ve conducted top secret
interviews, compiling a curated guide of early preparations for this
year’s festivities by your favorite faces at MCI! This article was
inspired by “CEOs Explain How They are Celebrating Black History Month”
by the Onion.

Mr. Reardon: Our sources tell us he took up a part-time job as an Easter
Bunny last year, but was unfortunately forced to resign since children
were horrified upon seeing his immense frame in a bunny costume. We’re
unsure of his plans this year.

Mr. Lee: This year he is organizing a dinner and egg hunt for his
family. After paying for the groceries at his local Loblaws, he became
engaged in a controversial conversation with the cashier. Our sources
report that Mr. Lee remains stationed at the Loblaws, unable to walk
away from the heated debate with the worker. His family, particularly
his sister, is becoming increasingly concerned the event will never
happen and the eggs will go to waste.

Mr. Parker: After registering his children for the Easter Egg hunt
hosted by his local community center, he discovered the chocolate eggs
contained preservatives, GMO cocoa, and were almost entirely white
sugar. He immediately sued and, at the time of writing, the court had
not yet come to a decision.

Mr. Sommerfelt: He reportedly took his daughter to Nordstrom to find an
Easter outfit, when he discovered that they don’t sell button up plaid
shirts and satchels for 4-year olds. He filed a complaint, further
angered by the lack of punctuality by customer service. After reading
their apology email, which included the incorrect use of “there” and
“they’re”, Sommerfelt’s rage made him create a “customer service rubric”
on which he graded the American luxury department store 40% and emailed
it back to the company. On March 2nd, 2023, the company announced they
were shutting down all 13 of their stores within Canada.

Mr. Farrow: He is currently preparing to host the annual ‘Teacher’s
Egg-Spoon Race’, with the contestants having yet to be determined. He’s
hoping this year will be an improvement from last year, as he was
severely disappointed since the eggs were violently de-shelled by the
Family Studies Department and transformed into deviled egg displays,
forcing the race to be postponed.

Ms. Werhun: A little known fact about her is that she’s responsible for
her neighborhood’s annual Easter egg hunt, optimizing the fun by
calculating the success probability of each hiding spot. However, to
*really* mark the 50th anniversary of the hunt, our sources have told us
that eggs will be hidden in the most difficult places to maximize
frustration and catastrophe. Ms. Werhun intends on graphing her success
after the event.

Ms. Chang: “Easter???...fun???....celebrations???...absolutely not. I
will be practicing, and you should be too.”

Image taken by [*Julia Wu*](https://mcibeacon.com/member/julia-wu)

*This article is part of "The Bacon" - The Beacon's April Fools' edition. We hope you enjoyed!*