---
author: cemeka
image: assets/images/some-photo.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Goospocalypse"
---

To many people, geese are probably the “Karens” of the animal kingdom—
constantly inducing fear wherever they go, and honking nonstop. Love ‘em
or hate ‘em, they aren’t going anywhere. So, as payback for all the poop
we’ve had to wipe from the bottoms of our shoes, we might as well gossip
about them behind their backs.

Over the past couple of days, I’ve interviewed many people about their
interactions and feelings about geese, and these people have had their
fair share of trauma. Fiona, a Grade 9, says that a goose bit her, and
countless other people I interviewed shared stories about being chased
by geese. One of these people was Nyela, another Grade 9, who says that
a goose attacked her while she was walking peacefully (yikes).

But have no fear, because for those of you who love geese, there is a
small but still-existing hope for their public image. While it’s not a
gold star of approval, the feelings these people have for them is not
hate. Some people have come forward saying that they feel apathetic
towards geese, and on rare occasions, the student body has even seen the
geese being friendly with a mysterious student from our school, dubbed
the “goose whisperer”.

To see for myself if the overwhelming hate for geese at our school was
unfounded or not, I went to the front of the school, one of the places
where a lot of the geese spend their time, and attempted to interview a
whole gaggle of them. My attempt was unsuccessful, though, because, for
some reason, no matter how close I stalked behind them and made noise, I
was practically invisible to them. So for now, I guess I must go on, not
knowing why they insist on harassing our wonderful MCI students!

Overall, no matter the opinion you may have of geese, whether it’s the
urge to burn them to the ground or the longing to play house with them,
they’re not showing any sign of leaving anytime soon, so we might as
well accept it.

I wish you many years of not coming into contact with goose poop! Honk
you later!!
