---
author: sxiang
image: assets/images/some-photo.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "The Modern Dystopia Censoring News Across the Nation"
---

In June 2023, the federal government passed Bill C-18, *An Act
respecting online communications platforms that make news content
available to persons in Canada—*otherwise known as the Online News Act.
You might have noticed the response to this legislation on Instagram—
over the summer, every single reputed news source was blocked on Meta’s
platforms, like Instagram and Facebook, and the block remains today.
Currently, if a Canadian Instagram user tries to search for any
reputable media company on the app, they are presented with a blank
screen that reads, “People in Canada can’t see this content”. The
_Martingrove Beacon_’s very own Instagram page was even blocked with the
same message earlier this year. Without trusted news sources available
at the tips of Canadians’ fingertips, unverified news and misinformation
can run rampant through Instagram, Facebook, and Threads.

According to the Department of Justice, the purpose of Bill C-18 is to
“support news businesses to secure fair compensation when their news
content is made available by dominant digital news intermediaries and
generates economic gain.” In other words, this legislation aims to
ensure that journalists and news companies are paid fairly when their
content is viewed and monetized on outlets that are not directly owned
by those companies, especially in a “market environment that has been
disadvantageous to news businesses.”

It’s no news that print media is on a steady decline—according to
Statistics Canada, Canadian newspapers had a 23.9% decrease in print
advertising sales from 2018 to 2020. People aren’t buying newspapers
anymore, especially not our generation. What Gen Z prefers, instead, is
Instagram. Before Instagram’s recent ban, news was widely available on
the app— trusted Canadian and international news organizations would
post their content in a quick, simple format, accessible by all, and
most importantly, _free._

CBC News used to post its articles in an easily digestible format on
Instagram, but the power imbalance between the CBC and the $794 billion
technology conglomerate, Meta, meant that the CBC had little control
over how much of the revenue from its Instagram content went into its
pocket, and how much went into Meta’s.

Bill C-18, however, aims to strengthen the “bargaining position” of news
businesses in proportion to “large and dominant digital news
intermediaries”, such as Instagram or X (formerly known as Twitter),
essentially making sure that the journalists and other employees at
these news companies are compensated fairly, instead of being bullied
into submission by the platforms that host them.

The just thing for these social media platforms to do is to pay the news
companies fairly, so that Canadians still have access to what’s
happening in the world around them, and so that news companies can
survive, at a time when the news industry is on a rapid decline.
However, Meta, the parent company of Instagram and Facebook, had a
different approach. Meta banned news altogether.

Canadians have begun to rely on subscriptions and apps from their
favourite news sources, now that they are gone from Instagram. However,
a key demographic is missing from this solution.

Young Canadians are not subscribing to these newspapers. No teenager is
spending their minimum wage earnings on an online subscription to the
_Globe and Mail_, the _Toronto Star,_ or _The Walrus_. Moreover, it is
impractical for a teenager to take the time out of a busy school day
filled with clubs and extracurriculars to scan the front page of a news
website, or browse through an email newsletter. Meta’s response to Bill
C-18 has also included a ban on sharing links from news sources to
users’ Instagram “stories”, effectively ridding every single channel of
communication for young people of reputable news, in a time where
misinformation is rampant. Without trusted news sources on Instagram,
Canadian youth have been left in the dark.

Under the fundamental freedoms, section 2b of the Charter of Rights and
Freedoms, Canadians are entitled to “freedom of the press and other
media of communication.” If Canadians must follow the law, why can’t
Meta?
