---
author: nperlman
layout: post
tags: []
title: "The Ungraceful Downfall of Elon Musk"
---

From an idealist known for his attempts at laying the foundation for
human migration to a different planet, Elon Musk has recently had a
difficult fall from grace.

Musk obtained ownership of Twitter in an all-cash acquisition buyout on
April 14th, 2022, purchased for a whooping 44 billion dollars. However,
since then, he has been tied up in controversy after controversy.

Take the incident where Musk tweeted a link to an article by a newspaper
company known for spreading false information, which detailed
obscenities regarding American businessman Paul Pelosi, the spouse of
the former California state representative, Nancy Pelosi. The day
before, Pelosi had been hit in the head with a hammer in a targeted
assault, sparking outrage. As of the time of writing, Musk deleted the
tweet, but has not given any statements in regards to his insensitive
actions.

Musk’s popularity has skyrocketed in the past few years, especially
after he was titled the richest man in the world, yet it seems as though
Musk is running out of luck as he lost the title of world's richest man
to a French billionaire, Bernard Arnault.

To top all of this off, Elon Musk was due to appear at the United States
Federal Court in San Francisco on January 19th, after he was sued by
Tesla shareholders for a series of tweets in 2018. The class-action
lawsuit was filed on behalf of Tesla investors who owned Tesla stock for
a 10-day period in August of 2018. On the 7th of August, 2018, Musk had
tweeted he had acquired the funding needed to buyout Tesla at 72 million
dollars, but this claim never materialized. Additionally, the basis of
this lawsuit derives from the claim that the Tesla shares would not have
been traded at such a wide range had Musk not tweeted his intent to
purchase the company for 420 dollars per share, thus costing investors
millions. All this prompted an investigation, which resulted in a 20
million dollar fine for Musk and for Tesla; Musk was also forced to
resign as Tesla's chairman.

All of these issues come at a difficult time for Twitter, as users are
concerned about what will become of the company following such a
dramatic change in ownership. Musk purchased the company with the
intention of imposing looser restrictions on users, which includes
unbanning Former President Donald Trump, who was previously barred from
the platform following the storming of the United States capital on
January 6th, 2022.

All of this is bad news for Elon Musk, yet Musk is refusing to let this
go; his most ardent supporters, including myself, are dissatisfied with
his lack of responsibility. Having read his biography, I found it
interesting and am inspired by his willingness to take risks and
challenge the status quo all the while being an entrepreneur.

As I now reflect on Musk’s recent actions, I can not help but still
appreciate all the trials and tribulations he went through and the fact
that he still managed to accomplish many feats that others would not
take on. This entails Paypal, formerly known as X.com, Tesla, and
SpaceX, as well as his donation of over 300 million dollars through the
Musk Foundation, which is known for donating to causes such as renewable
energy, human space exploration and pediatric research. But nothing sums
up this situation better than a quote from the man himself, "I'm just
trying to think about the future and not be sad.”
