---
author: ntsui
layout: post
tags: []
title: "The spine-tingling spookiness of skeletons"
---

It’s a known fact that people fear the supernatural. But is it
reasonable to be afraid of something that’s completely natural?

Take skeletons, for instance. Skeletons are pervasive in horror genres
today, and it seems that a skeleton can be found decorating every other
house on the night of Halloween. Bones have become one of the de facto
elements of horror. But why is that?

We should be familiar with bones—we have them in our body. Why does
something that we have with us all our lives send shivers down our
spine? Is it connected to some deep primordial fear we all carry with
us, namely that of death itself?

To some, death represents the end of all things—an entrance into the
abyss. To others, death represents some form of transcendence, beyond
the mortal coil. Regardless of what you think of it, death is perfectly
encapsulated in the appearance of bones. Stripped of all flesh and
muscle and reduced to a pale white color, the osseous fragments that
make up our body represent the finality and totality of death. Lifeless
sockets and a thin, connected framework create a ghastly image of a
human being reduced to its simplest parts.

Perhaps that is why we fear them - because they represent a return to
no-form, a world of no sensations. Do we inherently fear the feeling of
nothing, or the removal of everything we know? Perhaps the skeleton,
with its empty spaces, opens a door to the abyss, through which we stare
into its endless depth. Or maybe it has to do with our survival
instincts: seeing a skeleton out in the wild might mean that something
dangerous is nearby, such as a wild animal or a poisonous plant. After
all, survival trumps all other needs, especially in the ancient world.

It seems as though skeletons and bones have laid root in the public
consciousness as harbingers of doom. The quintessential ‘living
skeleton’ always appears in movies and books, showcasing the terror of
the dead coming back to life. Indeed, figures such as the Grim Reaper
and horseman of Death are often depicted as skeletons, further
heightening the gripping terror of one’s own demise.

However, skeletons have not always found their roots in that familiar
fear. For example, when people in Mexico celebrate the Day of the Dead,
skeletons often represent life instead of death. Life, it seems, can be
represented by a skeleton as well.

In fact, skeletons certainly have the ability to represent a great deal
of things beyond death. Skeletons hold us up; they support our very
body. They are the framework for our flesh and organs. Without our
bones, we would be fleshy lumps of goo, crawling around on the ground.
Even the appearance of bones is deceiving; they seemingly break ever so
easily, but then turn around and repair themselves.

Skeletons certainly are spooky, and the greatest reason for this creepy
correlation is ultimately death. They can represent the impending doom
that looms over us all. However, skeletons can be viewed in many
different ways: to one person, a skeleton might represent death, but to
another, it might represent life. Either way, they make great
decorations.
