---
author: rpannu
image: assets/images/2023-04-11-Scammers And Frauds-The Joke Known as The SAC.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "🥓 Scammers And Frauds: The Joke Known as The SAC"
---

Arushi Unny - “...he used a weather machine to make it snow on the day
of the winter assembly.”

What happened to MCI’s beloved Student Administrative Council? From a
delayed assembly to exasperated executive members, the SAC faced its
fair share of challenges in the 2022/23 school year. How did they manage
to survive? Who got them back on their feet? How did things turn out?

It almost seemed like the holiday assembly wasn’t going to happen; the
odds were piling up against SAC. The concept of “Christmas in March”
didn’t seem too festive, but don’t take it from me, take it from the SAC
president himself, Liren Abeyratne. After hunting the school grounds for
the SAC president, I finally saw Liren. He had a lot on his plate, and
he seemed a little unnerved — the typical state of a man in charge of a
lot, maybe too much. After being pestered into an interview about the
holiday assembly, Liren had a statement ready to go. His statement went
as follows:

“The SAC is sorry for the delayed assembly. The SAC and all other clubs
were all looking forward to the assembly, but it was unfortunately
postponed due to the snowstorm and we had zero control over that. The
difficulty after the break was finding a timeline that was fine with all
of the teachers and didn’t mess up exam season. Students stressed out
over the assembly and didn’t want to lose class time, so the SAC found
just before March Break to be the best time for the assembly, especially
as it would match the holiday vibes.”

According to Liren’s statement, it sounded like the SAC had a lot of
trouble with the scheduling of the assembly, and March 10th ended up
being the most appropriate date. Sometimes nature wants the opposite of
what we want, and that is a difficult obstacle to overcome. However, SAC
managed to leap over that hurdle with grace, evoking holiday cheer in
the student body even when the holiday season had gone.

Returning to the controversial topic of the “Holiday” Assembly, Arushi
Unny, an SAC executive member, when asked for details about the delays,
let the Beacon in on some juicy, gossip-worthy information. Unny stated
that Abeyratne *made* it snow on the original date of the assembly.
Clueless MCI students had no idea their beloved SAC President was also a
vile, assembly-sabotaging monster, delaying the event and tarnishing the
name of the SAC by creating a fake snowstorm in the area. His
accomplice? A fake snow machine!

After some more digging, another SAC executive member, Armaan Thandi,
came forward to add his two cents about the “Holiday” Assembly. Thandi,
when asked for an interview, fearfully gulped, and scouted out the
hallway, turning his head left and right, weary of a *certain someone*
hearing his statement. His voice shaking, he quietly whispered to me,
“Liren’s plan led SAC members to believe that we might not have an
assembly at all because Liren is *afraid of singing*.” Many students,
including me, can attest to this statement, as I, amongst many others,
still have nightmares of Liren Abeyratne singing on Grade 8 Information
Night. His terrible voice fuels my desire to sue.

The word got out that I was doing investigative work regarding the SAC,
and I was approached by a grade 12 student named Owen Reid, who claimed
he was a SAC executive member. Learning more of my investigative
journalism regarding the SAC, Reid quickly exclaimed, “Liren is a
power-hungry, egotistical, selfish president who \[allegedly\] launders
funds from the SAC with the help of Muhammad Qadeer!”

It seems as though something fishy is happening behind closed doors in
the SAC, with Abeyratne as the ringleader of it all. I conducted more
interviews with Abeyratne’s co-executives to determine what they think
of him as president of the SAC. In a separate interview with Armaan
Thandi, conducted while he was giving out semi-formal tickets, he vented
his frustration to me. “Liren asked me to help out with the ticket
sales, and at the busiest time he wasn’t there, but now he comes in when
all the hard work is done, taking all the credit.” stated Thandi, as
sheer frustration coated his voice.

Unny was also outraged at Abeyratne, and upon hearing what Thandi had to
say, he reached out to me over social media stating, “He \[Liren\] is
awful at managing spreadsheets. We \[the SAC\] work tirelessly for days
at a time to ensure the spreadsheet system is running smoothly, but
Liren touches it and in 30 seconds he’s managed to confuse us all.”
Armaan and all other SAC members deserve a standing ovation for their
hard work in the SAC, but also for cleaning up after a man-child like
Liren.

At the time of writing, the assembly has yet to come to fruition, yet
the undeniable tension brewing within the SAC ranks has many wondering
if the assembly will once again be postponed. The situation is
unfortunate and completely unavoidable had Abeyratne not become
corrupted by the power of being SAC President, and perhaps picked up a
singing lesson or two. Yet the question that remains is, will the SAC
president step up and fulfill his presidential duties, or will he fake
yet another snowstorm?

*This article is part of "The Bacon" - The Beacon's April Fools' edition. We hope you enjoyed!*