---
author: npark
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Snowboarding is the… Imperfect Winter Sport"
---

I have a confession to make - in my eyes, snowboarding is the imperfect
winter sport. On mountain resorts that have been built to suit skiers
for over a century, the latecomer, snowboarding, fits in just as well as
a hamburger patty fits in a hotdog bun. A quick search of ‘snowboarder
chairlift fails’ shows you the unsettling number of people who have
fallen off; by no fault of their own. As a snowboarder, chairlifts force
you to face forward, but have your legs pointed sideways, concocting a
recipe for catastrophe. Personally, as a skier, I get an impending sense
of doom whenever I sit beside a beginner snowboarder on a chairlift.

On the trails themselves, snowboarding falls below skiing both from a
learning and logistics standpoint. It’s proven that the learning curve
of snowboarding is steeper, and that only ultra talented snowboarders
can navigate through moguls and expert terrain like a skier can. Even
looking at snowboarding GoPro videos shows how disorienting snowboarding
can be as each turn switches between a snowboarder’s torso facing up and
down the slope. Sure, a snowboarder could laugh all at a skier all day
hobbling around in rock hard boots, which are nearly impossible to
descend stairs with, but unless their name is Mark McMorris, who can
land a double cork 1080° at the terrain park, snowboarders will nearly
always find themselves second best.

None of this takes anything away from the people who choose snowboarding
- I know plenty of amazing folks that snowboard. I will never
discriminate against snowboarders, but I will put forth the unspoken
truth that snowboarders will always have a disadvantage, making
snowboarding the subpar sport it is today.

With all of that in mind, I would like to provide advice to all those
planning to hit the slopes later this season - but take my words with a
grain of salt. For the skiers - it’s never smart to provoke a
snowboarder, but respect them knowing it’s out of pity. For the
snowboarders - it’s never too late to change. And to any first-timers -
know that opting to ski instead of snowboard could be the best decision
of your trip.
