---
author: rpannu
image: assets/images/2023-02-15-Teacher_Interview_Mr._Reardon.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Teacher Interview: Mr. Reardon"
---

*“I’m 6 foot 7… but I was not a professional athlete, contrary to
 popular belief”*

**“What is your favourite high school memory?”**

“Okay, my favourite high school memory. There are many, but the one that
stands out for me is when I made a promposal, in grade 12, to one of my
good friends named Nikola. She was obsessed with dinosaurs, and so I put
toy dinosaurs in all of her classes, with a clue that led her outside to
a hill, and up there I sang her a song while my other friend played
guitar and the lyrics were asking her to go to prom with me. We are
still friends to this day, and there’s probably a video out there
somewhere, but I really hope it doesn’t get resurfaced anytime soon.”

Aw, Mr. Reardon is so sweet.

**“That’s a great story! And what year was this?”**

“This would’ve been, hmm, when did I graduate, 2011, so 12 years ago
now.”

Woah, I’m in grade 10, so I was 4 years old when this happened!

**“Why did you become a teacher?”**

“I became a teacher because it allowed me to explore a lot of my
interests. You know, I’ve always been interested in sports, technology,
the arts, and English. There's lots of different subjects I like and
I’ve always been interested in teaching, and this gives me the chance to
do all of that. But I think, more importantly, I really enjoy working
with teenagers. I think they’re cool, I think they keep me up-to-date on
what's happening with the world, and I really like to help them out. I
like to see them succeed and grow, and I like to create an environment
in class where they can have a good time while still learning
something.”

Seems like Mr. Reardon really loves the high school atmosphere!

**“Can you tell us about your height and your pro sports career?”**

“So, I’m 6 foot 7, so that means I’m 2 meters tall if we’re using that
metric, but I was not a professional athlete, contrary to popular
belief. I played volleyball in university, I went to Ryerson, which is
now Toronto Metropolitan University, and I had a very enjoyable time
playing there, and I’m happy that I still get to play now at MCI in the
intramural league, and I get to coach, which is a new and exciting
endeavor for me.”

I guess when you’re 6’7 you have no choice but to play on the volleyball
team.

**“When did you get so tall?”**

“I think I was always, you know, in the back row of the class photo, but
I really shot up when I was around 16. I'd say I had my big growth spurt
and that's when I entered my very lanky, awkward phase.

**“So, you’re saying I have a chance?”**

“Yes, everyone has a chance. Also, you’re not defined by your height.
It’s just a number.”

Do you hear that MCI? Grade 10s, it’s going to be our year!

**“What were your past jobs and why did you leave them?”**

“The main job I did before teaching was TV producing. I know teenagers
don’t really watch cable anymore, but I worked on some shows that they
may have heard of, like, Breakfast Television, City News, Entertainment
Tonight Canada, and ETalk, and I was a producer there. I would go out
and produce shoots, do interviews with people, and work on things in the
studio and I really loved it. However, I would say I love teaching more
and in my video class I get to do a lot of things I love to do about
that job while still fulfilling my greater purpose as a teacher.”

No way, a technology teacher that knows how to use technology?!?

**“What were your hobbies and interests in high school?”**

“I sort of dabbled in a few different things. I played sports, I was
also in the band, and I was a bit of a music nerd. I did a video club
and I also was in a few school plays, so I did a bit of drama as well,
which was something that I miss at times.”

Seems like Mr. Reardon did a bit of everything in high school.

**“That concludes all of my questions. Is there anything you would like
to tell the school?”**

“I would like to say thank you so much for the warm welcome this first
semester. It’s always so nerve-wracking to enter a new school as someone
from the outside, but I felt instantly at home, and that is because the
students, the staff, and the greater community make this a wonderful
place to be, and I am proud to call myself a Bear.”

I can definitely say I’m glad Mr. Reardon is now an MCI Bear too!
