---
author: rpannu
image: assets/images/some-photo.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "What’s that Buzz around the Corner?"
---

MCI has a problem. Students are being attacked at lunchtime by a
biological monstrosity that leaves no food untouched and no child
unstung. This despicable creature has students running for their lives,
following them all the way from Tim Hortons to MCI. Have you ever been
the victim of a **_wasp_** attack? Wasps have been known from ancient
times to be the bane of students all over the world. Unfortunately, it
seems that wasps have taken a particular liking to MCI, as you can’t
even step outside of the school without being chased by a wasp.

Wasps have also taken over the Tim Hortons next to MCI, as Haseib
Nasrat, a grade 11 student at Martingrove, learned the hard way. One
Friday afternoon, Haseib was peacefully waiting to order some Timmies,
when a wasp sitting on the windowsill decided Haseib was its enemy. The
wasp flew over and stung Haseib twice, on his shoulder and leg, which
caused him moderate pain. Naturally, Haseib did not enjoy this
experience, and when asked for his opinion on wasps, he stated, “Wasps
suck,” which is an opinion many MCI students, including myself,
wholeheartedly agree with.

Although wasps are usually the ones stinging students at MCI, their
friendlier counterparts, bees, often take the blame. As similar as they
seem, wasps should not be mixed up with bees. The biggest difference
between the two is their stings. Honey bees can only sting once, as
their barbed stinger gets stuck and torn off after they sting something,
which is typically fatal for them, so they only sting in self-defence.
Wasps, on the other hand, are often more aggressive than bees, as they
will attack anyone near their nest, and they can sting multiple times,
which is how Haseib knew he was stung by a wasp. Another big difference
between bees and wasps is what they eat. The diet of bees consists
simply of pollen and nectar, but wasps are bloodthirsty predators,
feasting on insects, larvae, and sometimes even MCI students!

As you can see, wasps and bees are pretty different, so the next time
you get chased by a flying demon, remember that it's probably a wasp,
not a bee.

Bee safe Martingrove!
