---
author: lcousins
image: assets/images/2023-10-24-How-Old-Is-Too-Old-For-Halloween.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "How old is too old for halloween?"
---

Every year, millions of young Canadians celebrate Halloween by dressing
up, going around the neighbourhood, and collecting candy that will stay
in their cupboards for the weeks to come. Although Halloween is a staple
in nearly every person’s childhood, there comes a point when they have
to ditch the festivities and stop trick-or-treating for good. Sadly,
after this Halloween, some of us may be approaching that point, so we
must ask ourselves that looming question: How old is too old to
trick-or-treat?

The greatest reason for trick-or-treating is how fun it is. When we’re
young, we’re excited by the candy and being able to dress up as our
favourite characters. As we get older, maybe we’ve simply already
experienced everything Halloween can offer us. The mystique is lost and
we end up looking for new activities to spice up the season. On the
other hand, some people believe trick-or-treating is exclusively for
little kids, and pressure older children to stop. There’s also many kids
who just get tired of going out, and would rather stay home and watch
horror movies. There’s a wide array of reasons why people stop
participating in Halloween, but none of them answer the question at
hand: What is the age when it all ends?

Although a lot about this topic is up for debate, it’s an unwritten rule
that Halloween isn’t for adults. Most people believe the unofficial
cutoff should be around 14 or 15 years old, when people have already
become accustomed to the high schooler lifestyle and can comfortably
call themselves adolescents. At that age, they are no longer considered
children and have to adapt to more responsibilities, which can imply
ditching activities deemed ‘for kids’. Others say the official cutoff
should be when people become ‘official adults’ at 18. If you’re still
considered a kid by the government, then why not consider yourself young
enough to participate in Halloween? Although this is all technically
true, another stark reality is that most adults don’t appreciate giving
out candy to the older kids on Halloween. Most parents and adults
encourage the 14-15 cutoff, which is why it’s widely recognized as the
prime time to stop and begin looking for other ways to spend the night.

Even though there's no definitive age when people should drop
trick-or-treating, we can all agree that by the time we start high
school, we should start looking at other ways to spend Halloween.
There's so much that the holiday offers, and so many different ways to
spend it: watch a scary movie, go to a seriously haunted castle, devise
innovative ways to scare your younger siblings (my personal favourite!),
etc. Of course, if going trick-or-treating with friends or family still
sounds like the best option, go for it!
