---
author: mhutton
image: assets/images/2023-10-23-Rise-Of-The-School-Instagram.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "The Rise of the School Instagram"
---

Nowadays, it seems like every school club, sports team, and everything
in between has an Instagram account. This has been going on for the past
couple years, but what caused this spike? In previous years, I didn’t
have Instagram and didn’t plan on getting it. However, when I entered
Grade 9, after my parents attended an information session, they
recommended that I should get it to keep up with the school community. I
didn’t see the reason behind this, but I downloaded the app anyway. I
noticed immediately how many accounts I would have to follow: MCI SAC,
MCI BAC, Relay for Life, the MCI _Beacon_, and many more. It’s not only
MCI that has these accounts— other schools have them too. But the most
fascinating development has been the sports teams’ Instagram accounts.
Now, it seems like every team has an account. Some are good, some are
bad. But the all-time greatest sports Instagram account is the old MCI
hockey account. Run by the managers, \*\*\*INSERT NAMES\*\*\* , the page
conducted interviews and facilitated creative posts all season long, as
the entire school witnessed the greatest season in recent MCI history,
from the comfort of their phones.

Not all accounts are good, though. If you are old like me, you remember
the time an Instagram account that promoted hate and bullying was
investigated by the police. I still remember exactly where I was when
this was announced, as many senior MCI students do. Now, there are
accounts that post memes, but use a different model, as they promote
kindness and only post respectful memes. 