---
author: jwu
image: assets/images/2023-02-15-Valentine's_Day_is_an_Ugly_Holiday.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Valentine’s Day is an Ugly Holiday"
---

27,400,000,000 dollars. Money that can purchase over 10 thousand Tesla
Model X's, build over 1000 CN towers, or buy almost 400 million bananas!
But, no. Last February, all that money was spent on cheap heart-shaped
chocolates, short-lived red roses, and lovey-dovey romantic dinners. The
blasphemous “day of love” is absolutely unnecessary, with the innate
idiocy of this “holiday” combined with overspending and the oppression
of the singles contributing to the atrocity known as February 14th.

Think of Christmas, Eid or Lunar New Year, all of which are widely
celebrated, with rich histories intertwined tightly with religious
customs, giving people *real reasons* to indulge in a holiday. They are
at least a good use of your money. Valentine’s Day, on the other hand,
not so much. When you ask people their favorite holiday, I can almost
guarantee they will *not* say Valentine’s day. It’s irrelevant and a day
many partners dread as they try to hunt down the perfect gift. Not to
mention, the absolute most absurd way to celebrate love, with grand,
money-filled gestures replacing warm actions of real love.

Have you ever wondered how we always end up spending more than we
intend? Consumer behavior is ridiculously easy to predict and
manipulate, and Valentine’s day is no exception. Stores bedazzle
themselves with red and pink, adorned with fake-flowers, complete with
the grandest assortments of candies, chocolates, stuffed animals holding
hearts and cheesy cards all seem way over-the-top, but clearly,
companies know how to profit. And it works a little too well.

I get it- it feels nice buying your cherished ones something they will
love. I’m sure many of you can relate; you’ve just started dating
someone you really like and want to show your appreciation for them. But
at what cost? For that same person to “make a mistake” or “lose
feelings”? How about your ex-best friend that ditched you? Were all
these people really worth shedding the money on?

For those of you who don’t have that special someone, someone to love,
how often do find yourself staring at a couple, thinking: “Man, I hope
they find out they’re related”, or find yourself listening to “kiss me
thru the phone” by Soulja Boy, hoping someone, somewhere, does indeed
want to kiss you through the phone?

In essence, Valentine’s Day is an abominable “holiday” with no real
purpose besides swindling people out of their money and making everyone
else feel lonely. Before you fall victim to this, or waste your hard
earned money on that special person this Valentine’s Day, I suggest you
take a moment to reconsider a better use of your money, which is quite
literally anything other than a stupid pink bear holding a stuffed “I
love you” heart.
