---
author: sxiang
image: assets/images/2023-02-15-BeCautious_of_BeReal_Our_Generations_Social_Media_Dependency.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Online Exclusive: BeCautious of BeReal: Our Generation's Social Media Dependency"
---

I am a fan of the BBC show *Black Mirror*, which means I never hesitate
to reference it in my daily life. Whether it's when my friends can't
stop scrolling through TikTok while we're sharing a meal, or when I see
people crossing the street with their noses in their phones, my
signature catchphrase is, "This is just like *Black Mirror*!". Some of
my accusations can be quite extreme (like my vendetta against Fitbits),
but when I was introduced to the platform BeReal, I couldn’t help but
compare it to the show.

BeReal was developed by Alexis Barreyat and Kévin Perreau in the year
2020, with the intention of creating a platform that showcases the real,
unedited versions of its users. Its premise is that every single user
will be notified at the same time to take a set of two photos— one from
the selfie camera, and one from the back-facing camera.

This rang alarm bells for me the first time I heard it— *everyone in the
world? On their phones? At the same time?* *This must be some sort of
government tactic to control the mindless phone-addicted sheep that make
up our society,* I thought.

Okay, that’s a stretch… Or is it?

Whether we want to admit it or not, the majority of our generation is
addicted to our phones to some degree. For some, this means that they
*have* to play the New York Times mini every day, and for others, this
means that they can't sit through a class without checking their phone
every minute.

According to Statistics Canada, in 2018, 97.9% of Canadians aged 15-24
had a cellphone, 72.6% of whom checked their phone right before bed. I
am no stranger to this— in fact, I have developed a penchant for 1:00
a.m. viewings of videos of Reddit threads that overlay a Subway Surfers
game in the background. This is a phenomenon that I am sure many members
of our generation have become partial to as well.

57.5% of the total 97.7% checked their phone at least every thirty
minutes, and 64.6% used their phone while they watched TV. This would
have sounded absurd to me as a child— it doesn’t make sense to interact
with TV *and* another form of media simultaneously— but now, I
understand. I can’t tell if it’s a need for sensory stimulation, or if
it’s a fear of missing out, but I’ll find myself on my phone when I sit
down to watch TV: tapping through the Instagram stories, saving pins to
my future house board on Pinterest (let’s face it, I’m never going to
have an orange SMEG), even scrolling through LinkedIn—anything that’s on
my phone is game.

This reveals another issue in our generation: most of us have become
incapable of being alone without heaps of sensory stimulation to keep us
company. When was the last time you were by yourself and didn’t listen
to music, or watch something on your phone, or have any form of sensory
activity at all? To be frank, I think that we’re afraid of being
isolated with our thoughts. Maybe it feels like we’re alone in this
world. Perhaps that’s why we rely on social media so desperately— so we
can connect with others when we need it most.

But does social media really feed our innate desire to feel like
valuable members of society? Does posting a BeReal every day at the same
time as everyone else on the planet give us worth? Or do we not care
about being valued members of society and instead long for meaningful
connections with others, the majority of which are achieved through
social media?

Whatever your answer to those questions may be, we can still come to a
consensus— BeReal is a sign of our generation’s dependency on social
media— positive *and* negative— whether we like it, or not.

**References**

> Statistics Canada. (2018). *Smartphone use and smartphone habits by
> gender and age group*. Canada. https://doi.org/10.25318/2210011501-eng
