---
author: awong
image: assets/images/2023-02-15-New_year,_New_Marty.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "New year, New Marty?"
---

As we start the new semester, I think it's time to examine our
priorities, starting with MCI’s own mascot, Marty the Bear. At best, the
costume looks like a knock off of a Yogi bear specifically designed to
scare children. At worst, it looks like someone skinned Freddy Fazbear
from Five Nights at Freddies and called it a mascot. Mascots are not
just beacons (get it?) for school spirit, but symbolize the school as a
whole. Yet, even the school seems ashamed of Marty. When is the last
time you remember them uncaging our favorite bear-shaped terror? I
believe it to be the prime time to replace Marty and through intensive
research, I have narrowed down the list to four lucky contestants.
Admittedly, I have never competed in or attended any MCI sports matches,
but I don't see how this could be a problem.

*Avatar’s Alien Race: Na’vi*

I have noticed a time honored tradition of modeling sports team mascots
after instantly recognizable figures from history, such an example being
the Michael Power Trojans. Marty the Bear lacks the cultural relevance
of historical figures that the Trojan mascot has. So, in search of this
cultural relevance, I suggest we at Martingrove follow this tradition,
but take it a step further by looking into the future. I say we harness
undeniable cultural relevance and model our mascot off of the Na’vi, the
alien race in the hit franchise *Avatar*.

*Kiefer Sutherland*

Many high schools have found success with having a cute and friendly
looking mascot such as the Runnymede Raven. Marty is a good attempt to
fit in with this trend. However, we need to stand out, we need to make
our mark on the mascot world. How do we do that? We choose the cutest,
friendliest animal Canada has to offer: famous actor and notable
Martingrove alumni Kiefer Sutherland. He radiates friendliness and
approachability in his roles as the bully in *Stand By Me*, the
bloodthirsty killer in *Freeway* and as the literal bloodthirsty vampire
in the *Lost Boys*. I'm sure that a felt effigy of him will certainly
capture the cute innocence of his roles as the assassin in *Desert
Saints* and as the assassin in *Confession*. If we capture a fraction of
his gentle and non-intimidating aura, this mascot will definitely be one
that students will want to introduce to their younger siblings.

*The Existential Terror of Global Warming*

Mascots are a great secret weapon in sports. Many teams like the
Oakville Trafalgar Devil have chosen to take inspiration from
frightening religious figures and incorporate them into their mascots.
This is, of course, a great scare tactic… who wouldn’t be afraid of a
team that bested a devil that paraded around their enemies, forcing it
to dance to *Today's Top 40* before games? Martingrove will most
definitely see an influx of successful home-games if we harness the
frightening power of mascots by choosing to instill a deep fear in the
heart of every sports team we play against in the future. What could do
this better than existential terror about the future promised by global
warming? How will we portray the concept of global warming? Well, that's
out of my department! However, I hope the costume will reference Doug
Ford getting rid of the carbon tax in Ontario.

*Marty Again*

As I came up with ideas and reviewed mascots, I came to an epiphany. I
realized why we have mascots in the first place. It isn’t about having
the cutest or most memorable or scariest mascot. It's about having a
connection with the school. Marty may be a little worse for wear and I'm
not sure if I have ever seen him actually “in the felt” before but, he
doesn’t need to appear all the time for his presence to be felt. He is
in the BAC’s yearly “bear crawl”, he is in the sign above the tech
hallway that says ‘Home of the Bears’, but, most importantly, he is in
every Martingrove student’s heart.
