---
author: nperlman
image: assets/images/2023-04-01-An Assembly Of Winter Magic.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "An Assembly Of Winter Magic"
---

For a so-called “winter assembly”, it barely made it to the finish line;
it was held on March 13th and winter ended only seven days later. The
Assembly was originally set for December, just before the holidays, but
it ended up being delayed twice.

Although all performances are reviewed in this article, keep in mind
that it was a two-and-a-half hour assembly, and this column squeezes it
all into eight hundred words, so if anything is missing or misspelled
(including the name of performers), I apologize.

After some brief remarks by the MC, Mr. Farrow, the concert began with a
pajama-clad SAC singing a modified version of the classic Beatles tune
*Let It Be*, and my ears were suddenly ringing loud when they claimed
that SAC is the best club at MCI (how is that possible, when the best
club is obviously the Beacon, the club that provides MCI with only the
best news and opinion pieces). However, the ringing stopped when Mr.
Farrow started his electric guitar solo, rivaled only by the late Jimi
Hendrix (rest his *Are You Experienced* soul).

The next act came from Tanesha who played piano and sang Rihanna’s hit
“Stay”, and it is clear that she put a great deal of time and effort
into this emotional ballad. The next artistic effort, a dance number
called *The Grinch* was somewhat ambiguous; the MC was correct about the
misleading name, considering it was two students dancing to a song that
had nothing to do with the Grinch and was instead a rap song about the
days in a month. It turned out that this ambiguous rap song was a
welcome surprise.

The comedian Aleksa was next. His jokes, which were all about the
silliness of math, brought unpleasant memories of math homework, but
were actually quite funny.

From this writer’s perspective, many of the later performances,
specifically the many dance numbers, must have required an absurd amount
of practice. Ting-Wei’s dance piece, featuring a great deal of jumps and
baton-twirling to music from *Kung Fu Panda*, deserves special mention,
given how fantastic it was and with how many bones the MC claims he
broke while watching it.

Although the next act, a simple magic trick by fellow Beacon writer,
Alisha, was fine, it also felt more like a commercial for the Scrabble
Club than a performance. In that case, Stupid Magic Tricks (influenced
by the old *Late Show* with David Letterman) and High School talent
shows really do go hand-in-hand.

Dancing requires a great deal of practice, and the next performance was
by Ishani, who performed a beautiful traditional Indian dance in which
she was alone and in a trance as if her spirit were overtaken, getting
ready to see her lover, who has unknowingly died. Overall the experience
was absorbing. The drama department was so impressed by her performance,
they will be creating a show next year surrounding her dance.

To give the audience a break from the performances, we were given a
treat— advertisements crafted by the various clubs at MCI to promote
their respective group. In summary: BAC is excellent at trick shots,
Environmental Club sings beautifully, and Breakfast club, Chess club,
MOD, and Computer Science are pros at video production. Lastly, of
course, The Beacon produced the best commercial, really demonstrating
the lengths management will go to to enslave their best and brightest;
ahem, produce high-quality articles.

For the contest portion of the assembly, various teachers and students
performed a series of contests for bragging rights. The contests
included planking, watermelon-eating, catching gummy bearswith their
mouthsand finally telling jokes. There was a great deal of intense
staring during the laughing portion of joke-telling, and the pieing of
the SAC Core Four was just as funny as it was the day before. The
audience was ready for more acts to follow.

"Aidan And The Teners" was scheduled to be a septet, but they were
reduced to six since the group's namesake fractured his arm. This
group's performance was probably the most ambiguous during the
Assembly—it was good but it may have been difficult to appreciate the
music given the group’s small size or the need for a larger range of
instruments.

After that, there was TBE (the best ever).

First, a South Asian attire-clad SACA put on an excellent performance.
Colours flowed, music rang and the whole audience was enthralled by
SACA’s performance. Second, there were back-to-back singing
performances, and it should be noted that it takes nerve for somebody,
anybody, to go up on stage and sing their hearts out like these two
ladies. Fortunately, both of them turned out to be good. In fact,
someone a few rows in front of this writer was so moved they used their
Apple Watch as a second flashlight to wave around. Mr. Farrow was
correct; Benedicta can talk and sing loudly without a microphone.

The final two performances were incredibly well-chosen; any meal is only
as good as the dessert, and both jazz presentations were fantastic. In
conclusion, everyone did a great job, and the effort required by both
the performersand those working behind the scenes was insurmountable.
Congrats to all!
