---
author: dpatel
image: assets/images/2023-10-29-Leadership-Camp-2023.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Leadership Issue"
---

This month, Grade 10 students went to Camp Manitou up in Parry Sound for
Leadership Camp 2023. They were accompanied by several teachers, staff,
and Grade 11 and 12 students returning as Activity Leaders, Counselors,
and BLT’s (Bears Leadership Team). Campers left school early in the
morning on October 2nd, and (begrudgingly) departed from camp after
eating lunch on October 5th.

Campers were engaged in numerous activities each day, such as Outdoor
Survival (including shelter building and archery), Camp Rock, Field
Games, Dance, Group Rec (including sports, yoga, and mindfulness), Rocks
& Ropes, Hiking & Geocaching, Drama, Co-op, and Arts and Crafts.

In the evenings, students of all color groups would partake in
activities, including Camp-Wide Games (a series of minigames in which
color groups would compete for the most points), Color Chaos (a
collection of games played by all campers in the camp’s hangar), and on
the last day, a Talent Show and a Dance.

This year, two new color groups joined the roster of the traditional
colors of the rainbow: pink and silver. The winner of the Rocks & Ropes
Participation trophy, a trophy recognizing the team that was most
engaged and immersed during the activity, was Team Pink. However, Team
Orange won both the Archery contest and Camp-Wide Games.

We collectively would like to thank Mr. Hartill for supporting us and
the organization of this camp. After 15 years of dedication, care, and
hard work for Leadership Camp, Mr. Hartill will be leaving the program
for his retirement - he will be missed! Without his contributions and
efforts, Leadership Camp would not have been the magical experience it
is and has been for so many Martingrove students.

Attendees of Leadership Camp can look forward to the reunion breakfast
taking place during the late start on Wednesday, November 29th. A list
of resources/contacts that students are able to access if they are in
need of help (or just someone to talk to) is available on the Leadership
Camp Instagram page, found with the user “@mcileadership”. Remember we
are all here to support each other!
