---
author: awong
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Atomic Blonde: My night with Barbenheimer"
---
She’s everything. He's just Death, the “destroyer of worlds”. Do they
need any other introduction? Barbenheimer, Atomic Blonde, whatever you
want to call it, there was an undeniably explosive impact when *Barbie*
and *Oppenheimer* were unleashed upon theaters this summer. As a
cultural moment, it spawned double features, fashion trends, and
countless memes.

Even before their release dates, *Barbie* and *Oppenheimer* were
consistently in the news, including sparking controversy over maps of
the South China Sea, creating discussions about the gender wage gap when
casting actors, and even causing a worldwide shortage of pink paint. On
the surface, it seems like the question to be asking is, ‘Why
Barbenheimer?’. Why these two movies now? They weren’t two sides of a
war moving towards mutually assured destruction. Instead, the public
decided that they were perfectly matched partners, dancing the night
away.

In my opinion, Barbenheimer is more than just the atomic wasteland next
to the Dreamhouse. Both movies deal with the existential themes that are
created by the implications of a world changing invasion. Both movies
are passion projects from well-respected writer-directors with clear,
recognizable styles. Both movies have an amazing set and wardrobe, and
expansive star-studded casts. Most importantly, both movies have this
living, breathing passion behind them for filmmaking as a craft, and
this can be felt in every second of both the movies. So, the real
question I propose we ask instead is, ‘What does Barbenheimer mean to
us?’.

Well, I know what Barbenheimer means to me. Hands down, it was one of
the best movie watching experiences I’ve had this year! I usually watch
movies in one of two ways: by myself in the dark, or—if it's a real
masterpiece like *Castle Freak* or *Space Truckers—*by myself in the
dark, yelling at the screen, and laughing at my own jokes. In reality,
going to the theater with my friends to see Barbenheimer this summer was
incredibly special.

So on game day, I suited up in my best pink threads and marched towards
the nearly 6-hour-long behemoth I was about to tackle. My friends and I
started with *Oppenheimer*, a tactical decision made because, by all
accounts, no one wanted to leave the fun hangout with friends on a sour
note (pondering the horrors of war). As soon as the movie started I was
hit with two realizations: one, this was going to be a brilliant movie
and two, this was the most *Nolan* that Christopher Nolan the
writer/director has ever Nolaned. By that I mean it has gripping sound
design, beautiful shots with natural lighting, timeline confusion,
famous or upcoming actors in glorified cameos (Shout-out to Jack Quaid
and his bongos) and Cillian Murphy in incredibly well-cut suits. If you
put this movie in a line-up of other releases this year and said ‘pick
out the Nolan movie’, it would be like putting Michael Myers in a police
line-up and saying ‘pick out the killer’.

After taking a break to refuel, we were met with waves of pink flooding
the lobby of the theater. Everyone was fully dressed to the nines to see
one movie: *Barbie*. Getting into the theater and seeing all the
female-presenting people waiting to watch the movie gave me a flashback
to the last time I was in a similar situation. In middle school, all the
girls in my class were taken to the gym to watch a documentary about
‘female empowerment’, which was just really brutal stories about girls
being catty to each other. When we got back, we found out that the boys
had gotten to spend the entire period playing video games. *Barbie*
takes this viewpoint and promptly kicks it out of the Dreamhouse.

Is it the perfect movie on feminism? No. *Barbie* is like Bernie Sanders
running in an election. It's there to start a conversation. Despite the
immaculate sets, perfect costume designs, and brilliant wielding of
Mattel Lore (I see you, Magic Earring Ken), the part of *Barbie* that I
enjoyed the most was the positive atmosphere in the theater. There were
so many different people watching and enjoying the movie. When America
Ferrera gave a speech about how hard it is to be a woman, the entire
theater started clapping- something I’ve never ever experienced before.

I’m worried that movie execs will take the wrong message from
Barbenheimer. Studios are already trying to replicate this success by
releasing the horror film *Saw 10* and the children’s film *Paw Patrol,*
and marketing them as ‘Saw Patrol’. But what they fail to understand is
that you can’t force meaning into movies - the truth is, people make the
movies meaningful.
