---
author: ntelesford
image: assets/images/some-photo.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Halloween Interviews with MCI teachers"
---

Two weeks before the beloved holiday where people wear elaborate
costumes to scavenge every home in the neighborhood in search of the
best candy possible, I interviewed some of the particularly festive
teachers at MCI. To be specific, I interviewed the following teachers on
their favorite candy and their most memorable Halloween experiences from
when they were younger.

**Ms. Thomson (has taught at MCI for 20 years to date)**

**Location: History Room (which she also was in as a student at MCI)**

**Nadine:** My first question for you is, what is your preferred
Halloween candy?

**Ms. Thomson:** Reese’s peanut butter cups. Hands down the best.

**Nadine:** No hesitation.

**Ms. Thomson:** No hesitation.

**Nadine:** An understandable choice. My other question is, what would
you consider your most memorable Halloween experience to be?

**Ms. Thomson:** One time, when I was trick or treating, I was quite
young then, I went to somebody’s house and I knocked on the door. Then,
the fellow came out, and I had my bag and was in my costume - I don’t
even remember what it was, and I said, “Trick or treat!” He responded,
“Give me a trick and I’ll give you a treat!” and I never heard anyone
say anything like that before. Usually, people just put the candy in
your basket and you walk away, the usual procedure you know? And it
threw me so off guard that I just froze and I just stood there and I
didn’t know what to do. Then, finally, I just walked away. I didn’t even
get any candy, it was just the weirdest experience.

**Nadine:** Did you see his expression after? What was his reaction?

**Ms. Thomson:** No, I can’t really remember too much aside from that. I
remember it was a man, an older man, and I think it was like a dad joke
kind of thing where he was just trying to be funny, only I didn’t get it
at first and it threw me so off guard. I was also really nervous so I
just kinda froze. That's a memorable experience for sure.

**Nadine:** Thank you, Ms. Thomson!

**Mme. Ferland (has also taught at MCI for 20 years to date)**

**Location: sa classe de française (her French class)**

**Nadine:** Good morning, Madame. What would you say your favorite
Halloween candy is?

**Mme. Ferland:** Mini Crispy Crunch chocolate bars. That would
definitely be my favorite. I remember always having them in our family
as a treat we would get, so when I got free ones at Halloween, it was
always fun.

**Nadine:** Free stuff is just the best. What do you remember as your
most memorable Halloween?

**Mme. Ferland:** I think it was the first one where I didn’t have to go
with my parents. I actually got to go around the neighborhood with my
friends and that marked the beginning of me not having to go with my
parents anymore, so that was probably the most fun. Especially since we
were able to go off on our own. That was probably the most memorable
one. I was maybe ten at the time.

**Nadine:** Merci!

**Mr O’Reilly (has taught at MCI for 8 years to date)**

**Location: His English classroom**

**Nadine:** What is your favorite Halloween candy?

**Mr O’Reilly (after careful consideration):** I’ve got to say, hands
down my all-time favorite are the mini Mars bars. No question. I’ll take
a box of Smarties, I’ll take a Coffee Crisp, but my all-time favorite is
the mini Mars bars. The last four years running I have bought Halloween
candy in advance to give out, but the Mars bars never make it to
Halloween. I eat them. I have a soft spot for them, and if I have the
opportunity, I’ll eat at least four of them. Like it’s bad, it’s a bad
habit I have.

**Nadine:** And what about your most memorable Halloween?

**Mr O’Reilly:** My most memorable Halloween? Gee-whiz, I spent three
years as a kid in Cleveland on Halloween trying to get my vampire down.
I couldn't. I did a bad job on the vampire, but I think I got it the
last year I had it. I had it down, I even had fake blood on my cheek
_(motions to face)_ and white pancake makeup. I even got the makeup
right. I have a widows peak if you noticed.

\*\* (reference picture to widows peak, delete after)\*\*

**Nadine:** Yes.

**Mr O’Reilly:** So that is sort of essential \[to the vampire
costume\]. So the vampire was a good one. That stuck with me for a long
time. That’s all I can say. Another thing I want to mention is my
attitude about Halloween- it’s the best Holiday out of all of them. Why?
Because there’s no religious affiliation attached to it, there’s no
mystical meaning and it’s pretty easy to understand. Give candy to kids.
