---
author: mhutton
image: assets/images/2023-02-15-Hockey_at_MCI.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Hockey at MCI"
---

MCI Hockey is back, and better than ever! Last year, MCI finished with a
disappointing last place, and missed the playoffs. This year, with a
roster filled with a multitude of grade twelves, there was a feeling
that this would be the peak year. Expectations were high, by MCI
standards, with coach Vujacic saying that the team had a very good shot
at a tie, and that the team could score at least 4 goals. The full
interview can be found on the Instagram page @mci.hockey.

They had an incredible first game, exceeding all expectations by winning
the team’s first game in four years against Silverthorn CI, by a
whopping score of 7-1. The next game was the first real test, playing
against a very tough Etobicoke CI roster, featuring coach Vujacic’s own
son. The team fought tirelessly and managed to get a close 3-2 win. One
problem during the game occurred when the starting goalie, Evan Cherry,
collided with a player while saving a breakaway shot. He suffered a
minor head injury, but finished the game strong. Later, in one of his
own hockey games, he took a shot to the head and left the ice with a
concussion. This led to needing a backup goalie to play against the best
team, Humberside CI. Luckily, none other than the very person who is
writing this article stepped in. Not so luckily, it was my first game
ever. Despite being hit in the head 3 times during warm up, I managed to
put in a solid performance, only allowing 12 goals in while saving at
least 25 in a 12-2 loss. Not too bad for a rookie.

This year, MCI students are allowed to view behind the scenes footage of
the team, with the managers operating a team page on Instagram that
arguably rivals certain teams in the NHL.

With a different dress code every game, MCI is always the most stylish
team there. The team has rocked suits for business casual day, beach
attire for beach day, and the ugliest sweaters possible on ugly sweater
day. With access to post-game team celebrations, as well as seeing the
best “player of the game” receive the team tiara after each tournament,
our hockey team has become one of the most popular sports teams at MCI.
The team faces a tough schedule, but for now, let’s just sit back and
enjoy some of the best hockey MCI has ever seen.
