---
author: sxiang
layout: post
tags: []
title: "An Interview with Meir Straus, Toronto’s 18-year-old Mayor hopeful"
---

On Thursday, April 27th, I interviewed Meir Straus, Toronto’s youngest
candidate in the 2023 mayoral by-election. Straus is a grade twelve
student from North York, and though his campaign is satirical, it shows
that there are no constraints to what young people in this city can
accomplish. During the interview, Straus was accompanied by his campaign
managers, Talia Kirshblum and Boaz Shron. They were all on their spares,
and so was I.

**Note that this interview has been edited for length and clarity.**

**S**: This afternoon I am joined by Meir Straus, Toronto’s youngest
candidate in the 2023 mayoral by-election. Mr. Straus is a grade twelve
student from North York, and he is most definitely a real man, and not
three raccoons in a trench coat. Thank you for joining us, here in the
secret room of the Martingrove Library, Mr. Straus. How’s it going?

**M**: It’s going great. Thank you for confirming that I am a real
person, and not three raccoons in human clothing and wrapped up in
plasticine. I am a real person, and there have been rumours, but they
are false.

**S**: Of course. We do our best to report with the utmost journalistic
integrity. First off, I must ask: how is senioritis treating you?

**M**: I don’t care. I want to get out of \[school\], and into City
Hall.

**S**: Your platform lists popping all the balloons in the city as a way
to combat inflation. What are the environmental implications of this?
What about the moles of helium gas that will be released into our
atmosphere and the pieces of rubber and plastic that will litter the
streets of Toronto?

**M**: Yes, there are environmental implications, but it’s all in the
interest of the economy. Because inflation has been rising year after
year, Torontonians can’t keep up. So, we have to pop all the balloons in
the city that are hovering outside our windows, constantly hovering into
our living spaces. It’s the worst. We need to end inflation by popping
all the balloons. When it comes to rubber on the streets and helium in
the air, so be it.

**S**: On a scale of 1-10, how silly and goofy are your opponents,
compared to you?

**M**: 11. I might be a clown, but at least I admit that I’m a clown.

**S**: Your platform states, “To reduce light pollution we will turn off
the stars”; what about me? My mum tells me that I’m a star every day,
and I’m sure yours does too.

**M:** You’re just going to have to be a necessary casualty. Light
pollution in this city has become too much. People can barely see. And
if you are a shining star, as your mom tells you, you are just going to
have to be eliminated. It’s all in the best interest of the city.

**S**: What is your favourite Drake song?

**M**: My favourite Drake song is the one where he goes (*unintelligible
noises).*

**S**: You heard it here first, folks. Meir Straus does not know the
names of any Drake songs.

**S**: Rate Auston Matthews’ mustache out of 10.

**M**: I could do better. (sadly) Never mind, I can’t. I’m going to have
to rate it (*an* *obscene two-digit number)* out of ten. He’s our hero.

**S**: Our school’s student council election campaigns are happening
right now, just as the mayoral campaigns are happening. What advice do
you have for our candidates?

**M**: Well, I haven’t won yet, emphasis on the yet. The advice I would
give is to pander to grade nines and make lots of crude jokes.

**S**: Lastly, on a more serious note, young people’s voices are often
dismissed by our society. When we try to express our thoughts and
concerns, we are often told that “we don’t know what we’re talking
about”, or that these issues don’t affect us. However, it is clear that
these issues *do* affect us: namely, you mentioned the housing and
mental health crises on CP24. What other issues should the youth of
Toronto be aware of, and how do we make progress, if we’re too young to
vote?

**M**: That’s a great question. When it comes to making progress on your
own, the way you can really do it is to vote, if you’re over the age of
18 . Go to the polls and vote for a candidate who will actually solve
these issues. Or, vote for me. When it comes to the issues themselves,
affordability is one that’s going to affect us the most, especially if
we want to live in Toronto our whole lives. Unless things drastically
change, affordable housing is built, rent control is enforced, and more
units are created by the city, we won’t be able to live here. There is a
lot that the city can do to make sure the housing prices go down.
Essentially, vote and keep an eye on the election. Keep an interest in
it. Read articles, listen to your local politicians speak, network with
them, and reach out for interviews for your school newspapers. Do what
you can. Knock on doors, go to events.

Straus’ platform can be found on his website, meir4mayor.ca, or on his
Twitter and Instagram, both at @meir4mayor.
