---
author: amisic
image: assets/images/2023-10-23-Doja-Cat-Scarlet-All-Talk.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Doja Cat's Scarlet: All Talk?"
---
After independently making music on Soundcloud in her teens, Doja Cat
was catapulted into superstardom upon the release of 2020’s *Say So*: a
bubbly pop-rap anthem of early COVID years, soon followed by the
anticipated 2021 album, *Planet* *Her*, featuring *Woman*, *Need To
Know,* and *Kiss Me More*. The world was ready for more of Doja’s music,
but her recent adoption of a demonic aesthetic, denouncement of previous
works, and harsh words towards ‘stans’ left a mixed public perception.
Alongside her controversies, a string of singles preceded her newest
album, *Scarlet*, which was released this September.

Doja started strong with her lead single, and my personal album
highlight, *Attention*. I’d sum the song up with the concluding line
from the first verse: “You follow me, but you don’t really care about
the music.” She is clearly criticising fans that believe they have a say
in her choices, deeming them as fake fans who don’t truly appreciate her
music.

I felt optimistic about this new direction she was taking. *Attention*
doesn’t fit into the homogenous *Planet Her*, but unfortunately *Paint
The Town Red* scurried back to the safety of her old style. *Paint The
Town Red* is a collection of uninspired earworm hooks, and a vague
backlash against the notion of public martyrdom, yet it wasn’t as strong
as her previous successes. The subsequent single, *Demons*, is yet again
about her public perception, while also lightly pushing her demonic
aesthetic, albeit more enjoyable than *Paint The Town Red*.

On September 22nd, we finally got to hear the entirety of what *Scarlet*
had to offer. Doja pushed back against fans who detracted her aesthetic,
retorting with “The only thing I sold was a record” in *Skull and
Bones*. Doja also exercises some of her comical lyricism in songs like
*Can’t Wait*, with weird quips like “I wanna be the stubborn crust of
barnacles around you” and, my personal favourite, “If you were to become
a Middle American farmer / I’d read up on every vegetable and harvest
them around you.” There is even a rare moment of her vulnerability when
she raps, “I hope that I can ease some the stress, can I chime in? / I
know I’ve been the root of the cause.” In some regards, *Scarlet* did
not disappoint, with its entertaining moments sprinkled throughout.

Unfortunately, that’s all they are: sprinkled. I had to scour for the
bars I quoted. My interest runs dry when I listen to tracks like *Gun*,
where we get yet another song about a reproductive appendage without any
memorable or clever lines. The album became repetitive by restating the
same concepts about the same topics, which usually range between two
things: her fans and her fame. Her instrumental and lyrical growth
remain very limited, despite some slight stylistic and aesthetic
departure. The structure still remains the same: she releases a few
singles, some of which blow up, and the rest are filler. If her goal was
to lose her ‘fake fans’, then *Scarlet’s* current dominance of \#9 on
the *Billboard 200* must mean very few were ‘fake’, but despite her PR
shenanigans, she’ll eventually lose the public’s *Attention*.
